I bought this laptop for its weight and that's about the only thing positive I can say about it. The processing power is not very strong, so performance-wise, I was not impressed. But with the pricetag considered, I'm all right with this. However, the biggest thing for me is the OS- WINDOWS 10-IN S MODE. I had never heard of S Mode, and I didn't notice this when I bought the laptop. Apparently, S Mode is Microsoft's way of ensuring that you only use their apps and products by blocking you from downloading any outside apps. You have to get them all through their store. So, for example, were I to try to download Norton's anti-virus from Norton's official site, Microsoft's S Mode would tell me that I am unable. Any and all files outside of their store are blocked from being downloaded. In order to leave S Mode, you have to change it in the settings, but then you have to use a registration key for Windows 10 Home or Pro. So I shelled out another $130 just to get a fully functioning OS. Factor that price into this laptop price. THEN- after purchasing Windows 10 Home, I had to keep trying over the course of 4 days for the laptop to accept me switching out of S Mode because Microsoft was conveniently having server errors on their side and so my request could not be processed at this time. This is a common issue, at least from what I read among those discussing S Mode on Reddit forums. Multiple people report that Microsoft has server issues when you try to opt out of S Mode. Very very unhappy with this laptop for the sole reason that the OS is Windows 10 in S Mode. It was inconvenient and one of the most useless things I have ever seen pre-installed on a computer. Created a major and unnecessary headache for me.
For my usage, this laptop fits the bill. I got it on Prime Day for $290 after tax. Here are my first impressions: Pros: VERY LIGHTWEIGHT for a 15.6 inch laptop. Colors are very saturated. Sleek exterior (pictures above). Decent battery life (about 6.5 hours). Great performance overall. Cons: Only 4gb ram out of the box ( I took the bottom panel off and installed Crucial 8GB 260-Pin DDR4 SO-DIMM DDR4 2666 (PC4 21300) Memory Model CT8G4SFS8266. Keypad makes loud noises when clicked on. 128 GB ssd's, with about 98gb after set up. There is an empty slot for an internal hard drive when you take off the bottom panel. Sound isn't very loud when turned up all the way. I mainly use this laptop for school work (I'm in college) and is within my budget. It's very portable and can take abuse if it's coming in and out of a backpack.
It came today and I plugged it in, charged, powered on and did the setup. Walked away for a bit and came back to it with a black screen. I assumed it went to sleep or the screen turned off. The power button does nothing. Blue light is on saying it is charged. Held down power for 45 seconds- nothing. Unplugged from charger and did the same. Waited a bit and called amazon tech who had me repeat the same steps. I’ve now been on hold for 25 minutes while they reach out to acer to see if there is something else they can do. 7/20 Update: I waited on hold for nearly 40 minutes while the Amazon tech stated she was on hold with acer. She came back after and said that she couldn’t reach them despite their call center being 24 hours but would call me at 5pm on Friday. Friday and I did not receive a call. I checked hours later to see she had sent an email and told me to call Acer directly. By this time it’s late and I have plans. I therefore called Acer this morning. Anytime the computer is left on without using for 30 minutes it freezes - resetting the battery doesn’t help- the power button just doesn’t work and it has to sit for 24 to reset itself. They suspect a display, charger or battery issue and offered to send me a shipping label as I can’t print anything without a working computer. As I’ve had this computer for less than two days and it had issues within hours I advise that I will be returning to amazon for a replacement. Amazon tells me it’ll be days before I get my replacement. Hopefully it works! Now I do remember why I bought my last computer at a store - is there’s ever an issue they can replace it the same day and have techs on staff that don’t just try to pass the issue along.
Good entry level laptop. Latest gen ryzen picasso at the time of this review. Good for basic functions at this price point. Comes with m.2 128 gb drive with room for another SSD. Win 10 is a giant pain in the rear, particularly "S" mode, which can be opted out of.
We purchased this product for my son’s birthday. As he starts playing with it, we realize it’s in safe mode and he’s not able to download or open the products he wants to use. Microsoft says it’s a glitch in their system and we need to wait for them to work it out. Amazon says they will replace with another unit, but they can’t guarantee that unit won’t have the same issue. So, here we are with a brand new computer, unused. Huge let down. Disappointing product with disappointing options to make it right.
Pros: Price-performance ratio: Good. Smooth and fast enough for web surfing, streaming video watching, normal office software working, etc. IPS LCD panel: Viewing angles (up/down and left/right) are pretty wide (a lot wider than TN panel). Screen brightness is very good. Keyboard: Backlit is very convenient. Typing feel is very good. Separated numeric keypad is good. However, separated/dedicated 'Home/End/Pg Up/Pg Dn' keys next to numeric keypad are needed though. Expandability: Memory(RAM) is expandable to 32GB (2 x 16GB DDR4 SODIMM, PC4-21300, 2666Mhz, 260 pins). There is an empty 2.5" SATA slot for additional storage device. Aluminum top cover: Premium looks and durable. Weight (3.97 lbs): Considerably light for 15.6" screen. Cons: Product finishing/cosmetic condition/build quality: The aluminum top cover does not fit snug with the LCD bezel especially edges. Edges have gaps. One of the bottom edges has scratches/silver paint was peeled off. Quality control should pay more attention. Touch pad: Cheap loosen plastic feel. Every touch makes noise. No 'CAPS Lock' and 'Numeric Key Lock' indicator lights: Very inconvenient. No Memory Card slot. No USB-C port. Sound: Not loud enough. Right side speaker is weaker than left even though Windows volume levels of both channels are exactly same. Battery life: 7.5 hours in the advertisement is a joke. Lasts about 5.5 hours top with Battery Saver On and lowest Screen Brightness level. 3.5-4.5 hours only for normal web surfing with 2 or 3 tabs. Charging plug and port: Quite hard to connect. CPU fan noise: Somewhat annoying.
This is a decent laptop for the price, good battery life, nice and quick to do what you want to do. I will say, I have a few gripes about this machine, though. 1. Windows 10 S Mode. This is supposed to be more secure, but limits you to only downloading Microsoft sponsored apps from their store. You can turn this off and switch to the Home Edition, and it was the first thing I did. 2. They lied on the RAM. It is advertised as 4GB of DDR4, and it's only 3GB, as shown by the program Speccy, which pulls up detailed info about your device. 3. I have reason to believe this isn't an IPS display, as I had issues with side-angle viewing, and Speccy has detected a generic plug-n-play monitor. All in all, you get what you pay for, but I really didn't expect such blatant false advertising from a well-known company.
Computer works well, no complain. It only has like three weeks with me, but since the very first day I have used it almost 15 hrs a day in project. The only thing it just surprised me, its I bought this on prime day offers as my old computer died the week before. I was actually recommending it to a colleague and opened my order to tell him how much I paid. It was 438.26 minus the discounts (Deals of the day!) plus 20 us of taxes I ended paying 372.25. Today the computer on regular price is 309.99 US!!! yes three weeks after, not on super amazon prime day of the year bla bla bla…. I have learned a leason, I wont trust this offers again.....computer is good though
Can't imagine a better laptop out there. I was looking for something under 400 for years but never made a purchase because I have my own requirements: good speed, full HD (1080p), IPS screen, backlit keyboard, and light weight. Now eventually I can get rid of my 2011 Macbook (which I run it on windows so Mac system is not what I want), because this one is so good and so cheap especially on Amazon Prime day. As a former veteran engineer worked for the biggest electronics company, I wanted to remind people DRAM is commodity. Don't worry about brand. Just go buy from one of the reputable makers including Samsung, Hynix, and Micron, and I strongly recommend 2400 instead of 2666. I know the OEM RAM is 2666 but it REALLY does't matter. 2666 is the highest clock the OEM will support, but this CPU can only run up to 2400 MHz. When clock is 2400 both RAM have zero difference, but the current prices for both speed are different. In terms of SSD slot upgrade, I would recommend Samsung's EVO which is definitely the best out there. Most reliable and fastest in its class. If you have budget concern, WD blue or Crucial MX500 are good alternatives. Definitely stay away from Samsung QVO and WD green, and of course you don't want to buy from any small brands and risk losing data.
The Acer 5 slim is sleek, beautiful, durable, lightweight, lightning fast (when upgraded to 16gb of ram), and has a ridiculously low price tag. It probably wouldn't be of much use for gaming or CAD, but for basic web browsing, office use, and video streaming, it will do well. I have added some pictures next to a macbook air for size comparison. The screen is bright and beautiful, offering 1080p resolution. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the keyboard lights up! I plan to use this laptop mainly to stream business news, news tickers, and follow several stocks on multiple tabs. For this reason, I knew the RAM upgrade would be necessary. This PC would likely be quite slow if you chose to keep the 4GB of RAM, as 2GB is shared memory. I would recommend at the very least adding another 4GB stick, as there is a slot available and a 4GB stick is quite cheap. I decided to add a second hard drive as well, 128GB is not much, if I recall correctly, only 98GB was available, and that was before any Windows updates! I spent an extra $116 on the following upgrades: Teamgroup 16GB (8GBx2) - 2666MHz , DDR4 Dual-channel laptop memory, and a Kingston 480GB A400 SATA 3 2.5" Internal SSD hard drive. The fact that Acer made this laptop with 2 memory slots and a spot for a second harddrive is part of the reason this laptop has been a bestseller for so long. Without these options I wouldn't have considered purchasing it. I have included pictures of the laptop with the back cover removed, at various stages of adding the Kingston 2.5" SATA harddrive. It is an incredibly easy procedure, but I thought some may benefit from the photos. A bag of screws to secure the harddrive actually came with the laptop, which I included it in one of the photos. Replacing the memory is straightforward. To remove the back panel to access the internals, you simply remove 10 phillips screws. After installing the second hard drive, you will probably need to head over to disk management to partition the new drive. Be very careful with this step, as you can really mess your computer up & delete data, if you click on the wrong things! I haven't installed a second hard drive in ages, I expected windows to gind the drive after the installation, but that wasn't the case for me! This PC includes Microsoft Windows 10 in S mode. I suppose some people will be ok with this mode, as it enhances security and performance by only allowing programs available in the Microsoft Store. The vast majority of us however, will want to switch out of this mode ASAP. Fortunately switching modes is a very simple procedure. Here is the process: Go to Settings  > Update & Security  > Activation. In the Switch to Windows 10 Home section, select Go to the Store. There is also an "upgrade your edition of Windows" section on the screen during this step, do NOT click the "Go to the Store" link below that! On the Switch out of S mode page that appears in the Microsoft Store, select the Get button. Congratulations! Your new computer now has Microsoft windows 10 home, without the restrictions of S mode! Bottom line - this laptop is an absolute bargain! I hope you found this review helpful, if so, please kindly click the "helpful" button! Thank you!