I gave this product 4 stars because now that its finally connected to wifi its quite nice. The 14in screen is perfect for me. Not too small or too big. The 1080 HD is definitely worth it. Great sharpness and clarity when it comes to picture quality. I love the keyboard. Keys are soft touch keys and don't make a lot of noise and the backlight of the keys is a nice touch. For a good 24hrs the product has stayed connected to wifi. But after opening it and turning it on, it took several hours of getting it to stay connected. It would find my network, connect and within minutes it would unconnect. After much research, I learned that this unit only had Chrome OS 79 version. Chrome is now at version 81, so that may have helped the problem. I may still contact HP to discuss the issue and see what light they can shed on it. I called my internet provider and all internet connections are good. I have never had any issues with any device in my home connecting to my wifi. So fingers crossed this nice Chromebook stays connected!
Great laptop it’s not a super thick laptop but who wants big thick laptop lol but overall built great battery life amazing and don’t listen to the false reviews this amazing product I buy stuff from amazon and never had complaint so if your looking for a cheap good looking laptop with amazing battery life this is the one!!!
I took a chance on this because it has a lot of nice features and specs and is a reputable brand. This thing really works great for the two or three minutes it actually stays connected to the wifi. I'm really disappointed I wasted a whole day trying to get this to work. I'm returning this and will go for another Acer which is what I've been using the past 4 years and still going strong.
The device refuses to connect to my wifi network. Wasted several precious days off with the utterly useless social media HP support team trying to troubleshoot to no avail. I tried every chatroom and support site fix and nothing worked. Returning and will buy a different brand chromebook altogether. I've never had a more frustrating experience.
I didn't want to use my own laptop for work. I use the chromebook for web-based apps and work email now that I'm working from home. Its connected easy to my Wi-Fi. Great for what I do. It's quick and light, easy to move from room to room
Got this Chromebook a few days ago, took a little for me to get it connected to the wifi, but easily fixed it by signing into guest then connecting to the wifi, then completing the setup process. Amazingly fast and durable, fast shipping, and I love the backlit keyboard. Absolutely would recommend to a friend. Hope this helps :)
Camera is awful! THE CHARGING PORT ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE COMPUTER IS BROKE IT WONT CHARGE. They must realize it happens because there is a port on the right side as well. YOU HAVE TO JIGGLE IT TO GET IT TO WORK> A AWFUL COMPUTER JUST HORRIBLE> MY 2ND HP never ever again!
Excellent appearance and fine functionality. Difficult to set up - have to sign in as a guest, then go into settings, and manually reset time and date before Chromebook will allow you to set up with your wifi. Also, the keyboard backlighting is very weak and can't get Google Play Store to function, which limits your apps to only the Chrome Play Store.
As soon as your setting up a Chromebook always update chrome in the settings, that way everything will run perfect. This laptop is for my son. This chromebook turned out NOT touchscreen
I’m so glad I didn’t listen to some of the negative reviews cuz this laptop is amazing. It has surpassed my expectations. I bought this during prime day and my daughter said aren’t you scared that the computer will not be any good I said no cuz of the return policy but I am not returning it I love it. I love it so much I gave him a name!
