0	I bought this laptop for its weight and that's about the only thing positive I can say about it. The processing power is not very strong, so performance-wise, I was not impressed. But with the pricetag considered, I'm all right with this. However, the biggest thing for me is the OS- WINDOWS 10-IN S MODE. I had never heard of S Mode, and I didn't notice this when I bought the laptop. Apparently, S Mode is Microsoft's way of ensuring that you only use their apps and products by blocking you from downloading any outside apps. You have to get them all through their store. So, for example, were I to try to download Norton's anti-virus from Norton's official site, Microsoft's S Mode would tell me that I am unable. Any and all files outside of their store are blocked from being downloaded. In order to leave S Mode, you have to change it in the settings, but then you have to use a registration key for Windows 10 Home or Pro. So I shelled out another $130 just to get a fully functioning OS. Factor that price into this laptop price. THEN- after purchasing Windows 10 Home, I had to keep trying over the course of 4 days for the laptop to accept me switching out of S Mode because Microsoft was conveniently having server errors on their side and so my request could not be processed at this time. This is a common issue, at least from what I read among those discussing S Mode on Reddit forums. Multiple people report that Microsoft has server issues when you try to opt out of S Mode. Very very unhappy with this laptop for the sole reason that the OS is Windows 10 in S Mode. It was inconvenient and one of the most useless things I have ever seen pre-installed on a computer. Created a major and unnecessary headache for me.
0	For my usage, this laptop fits the bill. I got it on Prime Day for $290 after tax. Here are my first impressions: Pros: VERY LIGHTWEIGHT for a 15.6 inch laptop. Colors are very saturated. Sleek exterior (pictures above). Decent battery life (about 6.5 hours). Great performance overall. Cons: Only 4gb ram out of the box ( I took the bottom panel off and installed Crucial 8GB 260-Pin DDR4 SO-DIMM DDR4 2666 (PC4 21300) Memory Model CT8G4SFS8266. Keypad makes loud noises when clicked on. 128 GB ssd's, with about 98gb after set up. There is an empty slot for an internal hard drive when you take off the bottom panel. Sound isn't very loud when turned up all the way. I mainly use this laptop for school work (I'm in college) and is within my budget. It's very portable and can take abuse if it's coming in and out of a backpack.
0	It came today and I plugged it in, charged, powered on and did the setup. Walked away for a bit and came back to it with a black screen. I assumed it went to sleep or the screen turned off. The power button does nothing. Blue light is on saying it is charged. Held down power for 45 seconds- nothing. Unplugged from charger and did the same. Waited a bit and called amazon tech who had me repeat the same steps. I’ve now been on hold for 25 minutes while they reach out to acer to see if there is something else they can do. 7/20 Update: I waited on hold for nearly 40 minutes while the Amazon tech stated she was on hold with acer. She came back after and said that she couldn’t reach them despite their call center being 24 hours but would call me at 5pm on Friday. Friday and I did not receive a call. I checked hours later to see she had sent an email and told me to call Acer directly. By this time it’s late and I have plans. I therefore called Acer this morning. Anytime the computer is left on without using for 30 minutes it freezes - resetting the battery doesn’t help- the power button just doesn’t work and it has to sit for 24 to reset itself. They suspect a display, charger or battery issue and offered to send me a shipping label as I can’t print anything without a working computer. As I’ve had this computer for less than two days and it had issues within hours I advise that I will be returning to amazon for a replacement. Amazon tells me it’ll be days before I get my replacement. Hopefully it works! Now I do remember why I bought my last computer at a store - is there’s ever an issue they can replace it the same day and have techs on staff that don’t just try to pass the issue along.
0	Good entry level laptop. Latest gen ryzen picasso at the time of this review. Good for basic functions at this price point. Comes with m.2 128 gb drive with room for another SSD. Win 10 is a giant pain in the rear, particularly "S" mode, which can be opted out of.
0	We purchased this product for my son’s birthday. As he starts playing with it, we realize it’s in safe mode and he’s not able to download or open the products he wants to use. Microsoft says it’s a glitch in their system and we need to wait for them to work it out. Amazon says they will replace with another unit, but they can’t guarantee that unit won’t have the same issue. So, here we are with a brand new computer, unused. Huge let down. Disappointing product with disappointing options to make it right.
0	Pros: Price-performance ratio: Good. Smooth and fast enough for web surfing, streaming video watching, normal office software working, etc. IPS LCD panel: Viewing angles (up/down and left/right) are pretty wide (a lot wider than TN panel). Screen brightness is very good. Keyboard: Backlit is very convenient. Typing feel is very good. Separated numeric keypad is good. However, separated/dedicated 'Home/End/Pg Up/Pg Dn' keys next to numeric keypad are needed though. Expandability: Memory(RAM) is expandable to 32GB (2 x 16GB DDR4 SODIMM, PC4-21300, 2666Mhz, 260 pins). There is an empty 2.5" SATA slot for additional storage device. Aluminum top cover: Premium looks and durable. Weight (3.97 lbs): Considerably light for 15.6" screen. Cons: Product finishing/cosmetic condition/build quality: The aluminum top cover does not fit snug with the LCD bezel especially edges. Edges have gaps. One of the bottom edges has scratches/silver paint was peeled off. Quality control should pay more attention. Touch pad: Cheap loosen plastic feel. Every touch makes noise. No 'CAPS Lock' and 'Numeric Key Lock' indicator lights: Very inconvenient. No Memory Card slot. No USB-C port. Sound: Not loud enough. Right side speaker is weaker than left even though Windows volume levels of both channels are exactly same. Battery life: 7.5 hours in the advertisement is a joke. Lasts about 5.5 hours top with Battery Saver On and lowest Screen Brightness level. 3.5-4.5 hours only for normal web surfing with 2 or 3 tabs. Charging plug and port: Quite hard to connect. CPU fan noise: Somewhat annoying.
0	This is a decent laptop for the price, good battery life, nice and quick to do what you want to do. I will say, I have a few gripes about this machine, though. 1. Windows 10 S Mode. This is supposed to be more secure, but limits you to only downloading Microsoft sponsored apps from their store. You can turn this off and switch to the Home Edition, and it was the first thing I did. 2. They lied on the RAM. It is advertised as 4GB of DDR4, and it's only 3GB, as shown by the program Speccy, which pulls up detailed info about your device. 3. I have reason to believe this isn't an IPS display, as I had issues with side-angle viewing, and Speccy has detected a generic plug-n-play monitor. All in all, you get what you pay for, but I really didn't expect such blatant false advertising from a well-known company.
0	Computer works well, no complain. It only has like three weeks with me, but since the very first day I have used it almost 15 hrs a day in project. The only thing it just surprised me, its I bought this on prime day offers as my old computer died the week before. I was actually recommending it to a colleague and opened my order to tell him how much I paid. It was 438.26 minus the discounts (Deals of the day!) plus 20 us of taxes I ended paying 372.25. Today the computer on regular price is 309.99 US!!! yes three weeks after, not on super amazon prime day of the year bla bla bla…. I have learned a leason, I wont trust this offers again.....computer is good though
0	Can't imagine a better laptop out there. I was looking for something under 400 for years but never made a purchase because I have my own requirements: good speed, full HD (1080p), IPS screen, backlit keyboard, and light weight. Now eventually I can get rid of my 2011 Macbook (which I run it on windows so Mac system is not what I want), because this one is so good and so cheap especially on Amazon Prime day. As a former veteran engineer worked for the biggest electronics company, I wanted to remind people DRAM is commodity. Don't worry about brand. Just go buy from one of the reputable makers including Samsung, Hynix, and Micron, and I strongly recommend 2400 instead of 2666. I know the OEM RAM is 2666 but it REALLY does't matter. 2666 is the highest clock the OEM will support, but this CPU can only run up to 2400 MHz. When clock is 2400 both RAM have zero difference, but the current prices for both speed are different. In terms of SSD slot upgrade, I would recommend Samsung's EVO which is definitely the best out there. Most reliable and fastest in its class. If you have budget concern, WD blue or Crucial MX500 are good alternatives. Definitely stay away from Samsung QVO and WD green, and of course you don't want to buy from any small brands and risk losing data.
0	The Acer 5 slim is sleek, beautiful, durable, lightweight, lightning fast (when upgraded to 16gb of ram), and has a ridiculously low price tag. It probably wouldn't be of much use for gaming or CAD, but for basic web browsing, office use, and video streaming, it will do well. I have added some pictures next to a macbook air for size comparison. The screen is bright and beautiful, offering 1080p resolution. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the keyboard lights up! I plan to use this laptop mainly to stream business news, news tickers, and follow several stocks on multiple tabs. For this reason, I knew the RAM upgrade would be necessary. This PC would likely be quite slow if you chose to keep the 4GB of RAM, as 2GB is shared memory. I would recommend at the very least adding another 4GB stick, as there is a slot available and a 4GB stick is quite cheap. I decided to add a second hard drive as well, 128GB is not much, if I recall correctly, only 98GB was available, and that was before any Windows updates! I spent an extra $116 on the following upgrades: Teamgroup 16GB (8GBx2) - 2666MHz , DDR4 Dual-channel laptop memory, and a Kingston 480GB A400 SATA 3 2.5" Internal SSD hard drive. The fact that Acer made this laptop with 2 memory slots and a spot for a second harddrive is part of the reason this laptop has been a bestseller for so long. Without these options I wouldn't have considered purchasing it. I have included pictures of the laptop with the back cover removed, at various stages of adding the Kingston 2.5" SATA harddrive. It is an incredibly easy procedure, but I thought some may benefit from the photos. A bag of screws to secure the harddrive actually came with the laptop, which I included it in one of the photos. Replacing the memory is straightforward. To remove the back panel to access the internals, you simply remove 10 phillips screws. After installing the second hard drive, you will probably need to head over to disk management to partition the new drive. Be very careful with this step, as you can really mess your computer up & delete data, if you click on the wrong things! I haven't installed a second hard drive in ages, I expected windows to gind the drive after the installation, but that wasn't the case for me! This PC includes Microsoft Windows 10 in S mode. I suppose some people will be ok with this mode, as it enhances security and performance by only allowing programs available in the Microsoft Store. The vast majority of us however, will want to switch out of this mode ASAP. Fortunately switching modes is a very simple procedure. Here is the process: Go to Settings  > Update & Security  > Activation. In the Switch to Windows 10 Home section, select Go to the Store. There is also an "upgrade your edition of Windows" section on the screen during this step, do NOT click the "Go to the Store" link below that! On the Switch out of S mode page that appears in the Microsoft Store, select the Get button. Congratulations! Your new computer now has Microsoft windows 10 home, without the restrictions of S mode! Bottom line - this laptop is an absolute bargain! I hope you found this review helpful, if so, please kindly click the "helpful" button! Thank you!
1	I gave this product 4 stars because now that its finally connected to wifi its quite nice. The 14in screen is perfect for me. Not too small or too big. The 1080 HD is definitely worth it. Great sharpness and clarity when it comes to picture quality. I love the keyboard. Keys are soft touch keys and don't make a lot of noise and the backlight of the keys is a nice touch. For a good 24hrs the product has stayed connected to wifi. But after opening it and turning it on, it took several hours of getting it to stay connected. It would find my network, connect and within minutes it would unconnect. After much research, I learned that this unit only had Chrome OS 79 version. Chrome is now at version 81, so that may have helped the problem. I may still contact HP to discuss the issue and see what light they can shed on it. I called my internet provider and all internet connections are good. I have never had any issues with any device in my home connecting to my wifi. So fingers crossed this nice Chromebook stays connected!
1	Great laptop it’s not a super thick laptop but who wants big thick laptop lol but overall built great battery life amazing and don’t listen to the false reviews this amazing product I buy stuff from amazon and never had complaint so if your looking for a cheap good looking laptop with amazing battery life this is the one!!!
1	I took a chance on this because it has a lot of nice features and specs and is a reputable brand. This thing really works great for the two or three minutes it actually stays connected to the wifi. I'm really disappointed I wasted a whole day trying to get this to work. I'm returning this and will go for another Acer which is what I've been using the past 4 years and still going strong.
1	The device refuses to connect to my wifi network. Wasted several precious days off with the utterly useless social media HP support team trying to troubleshoot to no avail. I tried every chatroom and support site fix and nothing worked. Returning and will buy a different brand chromebook altogether. I've never had a more frustrating experience.
1	I didn't want to use my own laptop for work. I use the chromebook for web-based apps and work email now that I'm working from home. Its connected easy to my Wi-Fi. Great for what I do. It's quick and light, easy to move from room to room
1	Got this Chromebook a few days ago, took a little for me to get it connected to the wifi, but easily fixed it by signing into guest then connecting to the wifi, then completing the setup process. Amazingly fast and durable, fast shipping, and I love the backlit keyboard. Absolutely would recommend to a friend. Hope this helps :)
1	Camera is awful! THE CHARGING PORT ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE COMPUTER IS BROKE IT WONT CHARGE. They must realize it happens because there is a port on the right side as well. YOU HAVE TO JIGGLE IT TO GET IT TO WORK> A AWFUL COMPUTER JUST HORRIBLE> MY 2ND HP never ever again!
1	Excellent appearance and fine functionality. Difficult to set up - have to sign in as a guest, then go into settings, and manually reset time and date before Chromebook will allow you to set up with your wifi. Also, the keyboard backlighting is very weak and can't get Google Play Store to function, which limits your apps to only the Chrome Play Store.
1	As soon as your setting up a Chromebook always update chrome in the settings, that way everything will run perfect. This laptop is for my son. This chromebook turned out NOT touchscreen
1	I’m so glad I didn’t listen to some of the negative reviews cuz this laptop is amazing. It has surpassed my expectations. I bought this during prime day and my daughter said aren’t you scared that the computer will not be any good I said no cuz of the return policy but I am not returning it I love it. I love it so much I gave him a name!
2	In my opinion, the 2020 MacBook Air is a perfect laptop. It has physical keys that are a pleasure to type on, a beautiful screen, an optimal size, good pricing, and a quad-core processor. The only "touch" button is the fingerprint sensor and the touch pad. The onboard graphics are as good as discrete graphics from a few years ago according to benchmarks, which is impressive. The speakers work well. Being an educator, I purchased it on the Apple Education Store for $1200, and it couldn't have come at a better time, given the transition to Zoom in the coronavirus pandemic. Thank you, Apple, for rediscovering yourself. I had been holding onto my 2012 MacBook Pro because I was unimpressed with the offerings the past few years. You shouldn't get this if you are looking for onboard power, but if you are, you probably didn't need me to tell you that. Otherwise, get it. It's great. Update: After reviewing benchmarks and reviews, I believe the upgrades you should consider, in order of priority are: 1. i3 -> i5 2. 8gb -> 16gb. The i5 -> i7 is a small boost in power per Geekbench scores, but again, this isn't supposed to be used for heavy computing due to cooling limitations, so this is a novelty in my opinion. Additionally, the storage upgrades (up to 2 TB) are hard to justify when you have EXTREMELY FAST 40 GBP/s thunderbolt 3 ports that can easily be used for an external SSD that is more or less as fast as the built-in SSD. Unlike the other upgrades, which are set in stone once you purchase the computer, the memory can be increased with external hard drives with little to no compromise. This upgrade is a novelty as well, in my opinion. Update 2: The computer works well in most situations. Because of some laggy moments while running a lot of programs, I will be returning the default configuration I ordered and getting a customized i5 or i7 and 16gb ram. During Zoom screen sharing (and while many other programs run), sometimes the fan will whir (it's supposed to), but I installed a CPU temperature app and it appears to regulate temperature successfully. I haven't tempered my praise for this machine, because it's not supposed to be a performance workhorse.
2	It has been widely reported that the camera on the 2020 MacBook Air is low quality, but mine was definitely in the non-acceptable range. Picture was very grainy, unfocused, and low light level. I strongly suspect the glass in front of the video chip was damaged, perhaps for a contamination during assembly, but have now way of checking directly. Cleaning the outside had no effect. With heavy heart, I decided to return the unit, and buy an equivalent from the big-box store, where quality can (and will) be checked before purchasing. Update: refund for the item still pending, 14 working days after the returned item was delivered to Amazon. Worse than expected and worse than advertised (14 calendar days)
2	The original MacBook Air is retailing for like $749.99 right now. Don't buy that. It looks ugly and it's old. Buy the new refreshed 2020 model. This model is authentic, straight from Apple, and it looks fresh. One downside: Open it in a garage or something. I opened it in my room and my room smells like aluminum. Overall, this is a really good product for day-to-day use.
2	It's so nice but heats so fast.
2	For the average or small business person this computer will do more than enough and is a vast improvement over previous models. Catalina OS though sucks, otherwise would have given it a 5 rating. Problem is a lot of software I need for work is limited or won't work with Catalina. Yeah, you can take a chance and transition back to High Sierra or whatever but that's not a task I would want to handle myself personally and in checking with several computer guys in the area its not worth the cost, puts the price right back up to where the MacBook Airs were priced before. Keyboard is heaven, processor is fast enough for the most part, other than Catalina its great. Apple, get your act together, Catalina is not what most people want or need in my opinion.
2	What an upgrade over the 2017 Macbook air! Retina, magic keyboard, speakers, smaller form factor, finger print something-or-other, etc. When you hold it in your hand(s) it feel like a solid pice of aluminum. Totally pimptastic to the max. Getcha some!
2	The camera has a poor image quality (only 720p) and the fan gets very loud during FaceTime/Zoom calls. The MacBook Air 2020, like the MacBook Air 2018 and 2019, has very poor thermal design because there is no pipe to connect the fan to the CPU's heatsink. The MacBook Air 2020 is suitable for causal use. But even a video call will push the CPU's temperature to a 100 degrees celsius. Because of the poor thermal design, the fan becomes loud and the device will thermal throttle (meaning it limits the CPU's speed in order to reduce its temperature). This was not a present problem in MacBook Air devices produced before 2018 as the CPUs in those devices were properly cooled (the fan was connected to the CPU with a pipe). With the 2020 MacBook Air, you get a loud fan and a CPU performance that cannot be sustained for a longer time. The problem becomes even worse when you connect an external monitor to it. The most important advantage that the MacBook Air 2020 has over other Apple laptops is that it is the only one which still has a keyboard with no Touch Bar. So many people dislike the gimmicky Touch Bar in the MacBook Pro, as the Touch Bar ends up getting in your way and slowing you down. This would be a great laptop if it has a proper thermal cooling system and a better camera (at least a 7-megapixel sensor capable of 1080p).
2	Great, exact product. perfect and authentic, made in California apple
2	Amazon does not check this product for manufacturing defects. When my computer arrived the screen has bubbles in it and they are very large ones. For the price of this computer it should be defect free! When I tried to contact Amazon Customer service I get this "Currently Unavailable." I am stuck with this expensive computer and it's defects. I cannot return it because I need it for my business. I wanted Amazon to replace it but That option is "Currently Unavailable" too. The camera on this computer is grainy and low quality. I'm not sure if that is a defect too or if that is just the quality of the camera. If you buy this item through Apple they will make sure the product is free from defects although it will cost a bit more. You have to decide that for yourself. I am very disappointed with this product and Amazon for not giving me the support I needed with this product.
2	I suspect the MacBook Air I received was used. The computer could not found the hard drive, when I tried to use the recovery option, surprise, the computer was locked, possibly by the previous owner. It had fingerprints in the screen and the keyboard. I'm very dissapointed with Anazon, it's the first time I bought a NEW Macbook and instead received something that looks like being used, unusable and locked. Returned immediately.