In my opinion, the 2020 MacBook Air is a perfect laptop. It has physical keys that are a pleasure to type on, a beautiful screen, an optimal size, good pricing, and a quad-core processor. The only "touch" button is the fingerprint sensor and the touch pad. The onboard graphics are as good as discrete graphics from a few years ago according to benchmarks, which is impressive. The speakers work well. Being an educator, I purchased it on the Apple Education Store for $1200, and it couldn't have come at a better time, given the transition to Zoom in the coronavirus pandemic. Thank you, Apple, for rediscovering yourself. I had been holding onto my 2012 MacBook Pro because I was unimpressed with the offerings the past few years. You shouldn't get this if you are looking for onboard power, but if you are, you probably didn't need me to tell you that. Otherwise, get it. It's great. Update: After reviewing benchmarks and reviews, I believe the upgrades you should consider, in order of priority are: 1. i3 -> i5 2. 8gb -> 16gb. The i5 -> i7 is a small boost in power per Geekbench scores, but again, this isn't supposed to be used for heavy computing due to cooling limitations, so this is a novelty in my opinion. Additionally, the storage upgrades (up to 2 TB) are hard to justify when you have EXTREMELY FAST 40 GBP/s thunderbolt 3 ports that can easily be used for an external SSD that is more or less as fast as the built-in SSD. Unlike the other upgrades, which are set in stone once you purchase the computer, the memory can be increased with external hard drives with little to no compromise. This upgrade is a novelty as well, in my opinion. Update 2: The computer works well in most situations. Because of some laggy moments while running a lot of programs, I will be returning the default configuration I ordered and getting a customized i5 or i7 and 16gb ram. During Zoom screen sharing (and while many other programs run), sometimes the fan will whir (it's supposed to), but I installed a CPU temperature app and it appears to regulate temperature successfully. I haven't tempered my praise for this machine, because it's not supposed to be a performance workhorse.
It has been widely reported that the camera on the 2020 MacBook Air is low quality, but mine was definitely in the non-acceptable range. Picture was very grainy, unfocused, and low light level. I strongly suspect the glass in front of the video chip was damaged, perhaps for a contamination during assembly, but have now way of checking directly. Cleaning the outside had no effect. With heavy heart, I decided to return the unit, and buy an equivalent from the big-box store, where quality can (and will) be checked before purchasing. Update: refund for the item still pending, 14 working days after the returned item was delivered to Amazon. Worse than expected and worse than advertised (14 calendar days)
The original MacBook Air is retailing for like $749.99 right now. Don't buy that. It looks ugly and it's old. Buy the new refreshed 2020 model. This model is authentic, straight from Apple, and it looks fresh. One downside: Open it in a garage or something. I opened it in my room and my room smells like aluminum. Overall, this is a really good product for day-to-day use.
It's so nice but heats so fast.
For the average or small business person this computer will do more than enough and is a vast improvement over previous models. Catalina OS though sucks, otherwise would have given it a 5 rating. Problem is a lot of software I need for work is limited or won't work with Catalina. Yeah, you can take a chance and transition back to High Sierra or whatever but that's not a task I would want to handle myself personally and in checking with several computer guys in the area its not worth the cost, puts the price right back up to where the MacBook Airs were priced before. Keyboard is heaven, processor is fast enough for the most part, other than Catalina its great. Apple, get your act together, Catalina is not what most people want or need in my opinion.
What an upgrade over the 2017 Macbook air! Retina, magic keyboard, speakers, smaller form factor, finger print something-or-other, etc. When you hold it in your hand(s) it feel like a solid pice of aluminum. Totally pimptastic to the max. Getcha some!
The camera has a poor image quality (only 720p) and the fan gets very loud during FaceTime/Zoom calls. The MacBook Air 2020, like the MacBook Air 2018 and 2019, has very poor thermal design because there is no pipe to connect the fan to the CPU's heatsink. The MacBook Air 2020 is suitable for causal use. But even a video call will push the CPU's temperature to a 100 degrees celsius. Because of the poor thermal design, the fan becomes loud and the device will thermal throttle (meaning it limits the CPU's speed in order to reduce its temperature). This was not a present problem in MacBook Air devices produced before 2018 as the CPUs in those devices were properly cooled (the fan was connected to the CPU with a pipe). With the 2020 MacBook Air, you get a loud fan and a CPU performance that cannot be sustained for a longer time. The problem becomes even worse when you connect an external monitor to it. The most important advantage that the MacBook Air 2020 has over other Apple laptops is that it is the only one which still has a keyboard with no Touch Bar. So many people dislike the gimmicky Touch Bar in the MacBook Pro, as the Touch Bar ends up getting in your way and slowing you down. This would be a great laptop if it has a proper thermal cooling system and a better camera (at least a 7-megapixel sensor capable of 1080p).
Great, exact product. perfect and authentic, made in California apple
Amazon does not check this product for manufacturing defects. When my computer arrived the screen has bubbles in it and they are very large ones. For the price of this computer it should be defect free! When I tried to contact Amazon Customer service I get this "Currently Unavailable." I am stuck with this expensive computer and it's defects. I cannot return it because I need it for my business. I wanted Amazon to replace it but That option is "Currently Unavailable" too. The camera on this computer is grainy and low quality. I'm not sure if that is a defect too or if that is just the quality of the camera. If you buy this item through Apple they will make sure the product is free from defects although it will cost a bit more. You have to decide that for yourself. I am very disappointed with this product and Amazon for not giving me the support I needed with this product.
I suspect the MacBook Air I received was used. The computer could not found the hard drive, when I tried to use the recovery option, surprise, the computer was locked, possibly by the previous owner. It had fingerprints in the screen and the keyboard. I'm very dissapointed with Anazon, it's the first time I bought a NEW Macbook and instead received something that looks like being used, unusable and locked. Returned immediately.