0 General: It's 'fun to shoot some people' Commandant gives counsel, acknowledges wrong word choice Friday, February 4, 2005 Posted: 1602 GMT (0002 HKT)   story.general.jpg Lt. Gen. James Mattis, right, speaks during a panel discussion Wednesday.   YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Military  Marines  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- A three-star Marine general who said it was "fun to shoot some people" should have chosen his words more carefully, the Marine Corps commandant said Thursday.  Lt. Gen. James Mattis, who commanded Marine expeditions in Afghanistan and Iraq, made the comments Tuesday during a panel discussion in San Diego, California.  "Actually it's quite fun to fight them, you know. It's a hell of a hoot," Mattis said, prompting laughter from some military members in the audience. "It's fun to shoot some people. I'll be right up there with you. I like brawling.  "You go into Afghanistan, you got guys who slap women around for five years because they didn't wear a veil," Mattis said. "You know, guys like that ain't got no manhood left anyway. So it's a hell of a lot of fun to shoot them."  Mattis' press office has not yet responded to a request to answer questions about his comments.  However, the Marine commandant, Gen. Michael Hagee, defended Mattis, calling him "one of this country's bravest and most experienced military leaders."  "While I understand that some people may take issue with the comments made by him, I also know he intended to reflect the unfortunate and harsh realities of war," he said in a written statement. "Lt. Gen. Mattis often speaks with a great deal of candor."  Hagee said he had counseled Mattis regarding the remarks and that Mattis "agrees he should have chosen his words more carefully."  "Throughout our history, Marines have given their lives in the defense of this nation and human rights around the globe," Hagee's statement read. "When necessary, this commitment helps to provide us the fortitude to take the lives of those who oppress others or threaten this nation's security. This is not something we relish, yet we accept it as a reality in our profession of arms."  "Lt. Gen. Mattis is a superb leader and one of the Corps' most courageous and experienced warriors," Hagee wrote. "I remain confident that he will continue to serve this nation with dedication and distinction."  Added Marine Gen. Peter Pace, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, "The last three times that that general has been in combat, when he was leading Marines in Afghanistan and the two times that he led his division in Iraq, his actions and those of his troops clearly show that he understands the value of proper leadership and the value of human life."  Pace spoke Thursday during a Pentagon briefing. He declined to comment directly on Mattis' comments.  Early in his career, Mattis served as a rifle and weapons platoon commander as a lieutenant and later a captain. He also commanded assault battalions in Operation Desert Storm and Desert Shield. He was the commander of the 1st Marine Division for the initial attack on Iraq.  San Diego television station KNSD, which calls itself NBC 7/39, captured Mattis' Tuesday comments on video and interviewed a retired military man afterward who said the general's remarks were "flippant."  "I was a little surprised," said retired Vice Adm. Edward H. Martin. "I don't think any of us who have ever fought in wars liked to kill anybody." 
0 Afghan constitution becomes law Tuesday, January 27, 2004 Posted: 0209 GMT (10:09 AM HKT)  Afghan President Hamid Karzai, right, shows the decree former king Zahir Shah. Afghan President Hamid Karzai, right, shows the decree former king Zahir Shah. Story Tools YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Follow the news that matters to you. Create your own alert to be notified on topics you're interested in.  Or, visit Popular Alerts for suggestions.  Manage alerts | What is this? KABUL, Afghanistan (Reuters) -- President Hamid Karzai has signed Afghanistan's new constitution into law, a document that gives him sweeping powers but exposed divisions when it was debated in a national assembly that concluded this month.  The constitution is intended to pave the way for war-torn Afghanistan's first free elections in June which the U.S.-backed Karzai is seen as favorite to win.  "I declare and enact the new constitution which was unanimously adopted," Karzai said in a statement following a signing ceremony on Monday before his Cabinet and foreign diplomats.  The ceremony took place against a backdrop of security worries that have held up registration of voters for the polls and raised doubts about whether they can be held on time.  The constitution envisages a strong presidency and enshrines equal rights for women. It describes Islam as the country's sacred religion but guarantees protection for other faiths.  Its religious stipulations were put to the test almost immediately when reformists in the government and conservatives in the Supreme Court clashed after the former lifted a ban on women singing on television.  Both sides argued that their position was backed by the new constitution, with reformers citing equal rights for women and the conservatives a clause stating that no laws should be counter to Islam.  A statement from U.S. ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad called the enactment of the constitution a "turning point for the Afghan nation."  "We are witness to a major milestone in putting behind the era of the rule of the gun in Afghanistan," it said.  Khalilzad said the United States would stand by Afghanistan as it put the constitution into practice and prepared for the presidential and parliamentary elections.  The United Nations has warned that an increase in violance in the provinces that has claimed more than 500 lives since August could jeopardise the holding of the polls and has called on the international community to provide more peacekeepers.  It has pointed to the dangers posed both by Taliban guerrillas active in the south as well as by ostensibly pro-government commanders in the north more interested in consolidating their fiefdoms than Karzai's government.  The north-south divide was exposed in the constitutional debate with disagreements between the largest ethnic group, the Pashtuns from the south and the mainly Tajik northerners who dominate many ministries in Kabul. 
0 Combat stress: The war within Thursday, July 1, 2004 Posted: 2149 GMT (0549 HKT)     more videoVIDEO The hidden cost of sending troops into combat. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED • CNN Presents: Fit to Kill • New England Journal of Medicineexternal link • Department of Veteran Affairsexternal link • National Center for PTSDexternal link • Killology Research Groupexternal link SYMPTOMS OF PTSD • Flashbacks, nightmares or frightening thoughts -- especially when exposed to something reminiscent of the original trauma.  • Emotional numbness, sleep disturbances, depression, anxiety and irritability or outbursts of anger.  • Feelings of intense guilt are also common.  Source: National Institute of Mental Health SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Health Treatment  Iraq  Afghanistan  Department of Defense  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? (CNN) -- Almost two out of every 10 U.S. troops who have faced combat in Iraq may return with serious symptoms of depression, anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder, according to an unprecedented study.  Sgt. Danny Facto of the Army's 10th Mountain Division suffered those invisible scars of war.  After seeing comrades killed, the 24-year-old infantryman experienced troubling emotional and mental changes.  "You're just always intense. You're always super serious and you lose your temper over little things and you're not the same person who deployed," Facto said.  The first-ever wartime study of the mental health of combat troops appears in Thursday's edition of the New England Journal of Medicine. Previous studies of war veterans have been conducted years after combat ended.  Four combat units -- three Army infantry units and one Marine unit -- that fought either in Iraq or Afghanistan participated in the new study. The 6,201 troops filled out anonymous questionnaires before, during and after deployment.  The study found 17 percent of those who served in Iraq met the criteria for major depression, anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder -- or PTSD. Eleven percent who served in Afghanistan met the criteria.  But even worse, the study found, was that less than 40 percent of those afflicted by PTSD sought help.  The Department of Defense requires that every service member be briefed on mental health before, during and after deployment.  There are also an unprecedented number of treatment programs available. But some say that is not enough.  "You can't just say that I've got a hundred programs, therefore, I've done my job," said Steve Robinson, executive director of the National Gulf War Resource Center. "This study indicates that the sickest veterans who need the most help won't go."  Ninety percent of those posted to Iraq reported being shot at. A high percentage also reported killing an enemy combatant, or knowing someone who was injured or killed. About half said they had handled a body.  On his second day in Iraq, Staff Sgt. Georg-Andreas Pogany saw an Iraqi body that had suffered severe trauma, and he suffered what he thought was a nervous breakdown.  "I wasn't functioning. I was having physical symptoms. I was having a behavioral reaction," he recalled.  After struggling through the night, he said he decided to tell his superior officer out of fear that "if we do go out on a patrol and I do freeze up, that could have consequences too."  But instead of being given help, he was told to reconsider for the sake of his career, he said.  "The message was: 'Hey, you're a coward. You're acting like a coward.' "  A translator attached to the 10th Special Forces Group, the 32-year-old Pogany was sent back to the United States, where he was charged with cowardice. That charge eventually was dropped, but his record is still uncertain.  "My career is probably at an end. I've had my security clearance revoked. I'm still struggling to get things set straight," Pogany said.  He hopes that by speaking out he can help other war veterans.  "The most important thing is that trauma, whether it is experienced in combat or anywhere else in life, needs to be looked at as an injury to the mind. And an injury to the mind needs to be treated just like an injury to the leg, whether you have shrapnel wounds or gunshot wounds," he said.  In Facto's case, a positive attitude toward treatment displayed by his commanding officers, family and fellow troops helped him overcome any stigma and get into the group therapy he needed.  vert.facto.jpg Sgt. Danny Facto benefited from treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder after returning from Iraq.  "When I go to group and I talk with guys who are just like me it helps a lot, because I can discuss with guys that have been in combat, guys that have been shot at, guys who have lost friends in combat, guys that have killed other people," he said.  Facto said therapy has made him a better father, soldier and husband.  "When I came back, I was me, but I was different because of my experiences," Facto said. "Mental health and therapy really helps to understand everything I've been through."  Despite the military's efforts, legitimate concerns about stigmatization and loss of career advancement remain -- a great price to pay, especially for career military officers.  "Soldiers are concerned that coming to see us might harm their careers," said Maj. Paul Morrissey, chief of mental health services at Fort Drum in New York. "I can say to them sincerely, honestly that not coming to get some assistance will harm their careers." 
0 Kerry discusses $87 billion comment 'One of those inarticulate moments,' he says Thursday, September 30, 2004 Posted: 1618 GMT (0018 HKT)   vert.kerry.gma.ap.jpg John Kerry speaks Tuesday during an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America."   PUNDITS' DEBATE BLOGS Paul Begala and Robert Novak of CNN's "Crossfire"  blog their reactions to the debate in real time  on CNN.com starting at 9 p.m. ET. more videoVIDEO CNN's Dan Lothian on what the debates may give voters. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Jeff Greenfield offers some do's and don'ts on debating. premium contentPLAY VIDEO SPECIAL REPORT  • Audio Slide Show: Debate history • Moderators • Formats • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS John F. Kerry  America Votes 2004  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? (CNN) -- Sen. John Kerry on Wednesday gave an explanation for his comment that he "actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it," calling it "one of those inarticulate moments."  Kerry made the comment during a March 16 appearance at Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia, in response to a question about his vote against an $87 billion supplemental appropriation for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.  As he tried to explain that he had voted for an earlier version of the bill before opposing final passage, Kerry said, "I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it."  The Bush campaign immediately seized on the comment, using the footage in television ads to illustrate its charge that Kerry flip-flops on issues, particularly the war in Iraq.  Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney repeatedly refer to the comment in their stump speeches, noting that Kerry's running mate, Sen. John Edwards, also voted against the appropriations bill.  Wednesday, in an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America," Kerry was asked about the statement, which has become one of the most quoted lines in the 2004 campaign.  "It just was a very inarticulate way of saying something, and I had one of those inarticulate moments late in the evening when I was dead tired in the primaries and I didn't say something very clearly," he said.  However, as the Bush campaign quickly pointed out, Kerry actually made the comment in the early afternoon.  CNN covered Kerry's appearance that day. He made the comment about 1:20 p.m.  Kerry was barely off the air at ABC on Wednesday when the Bush campaign fired off an e-mail noting the discrepancy, under the subject line, "Perhaps His Watch Was On Paris Time?"  Asked about the time inconsistency, Kerry campaign spokesman David Wade retorted that the Bush campaign would rather "debate time of day than policy."  Wade also said "better an inarticulate answer than an inarticulate policy that has cost American lives and set us back in the war on terrorism." (Today in Iraq)  After the remark became controversial, Kerry explained that he had supported an earlier Democratic measure that would have paid for the $87 billion in war funding by reducing Bush's tax cuts.  After it was defeated, he said he voted against final passage of the bill to voice his displeasure with the president's Iraq policy.  Kerry told ABC on Wednesday that the comment "reflects the truth of the position, which is I thought to have the wealthiest people in America share the burden of paying for that war."  "It was a protest," he said. "Sometimes you have to stand up and be counted, and that's what I did."  Bush, Cheney and their GOP supporters have hit Kerry hard for voting against the money to pay for military operations after previously voting for a congressional resolution authorizing Bush to take military action in Iraq. 
0 Kerry stands by 'yes' vote on Iraq war Bush challenges Democrat on stance Tuesday, August 10, 2004 Posted: 0404 GMT (1204 HKT)   vert.kerry.monday.ap.jpg Sen. John Kerry enjoys a view of the Grand Canyon in Arizona on Monday.   THE MORNING GRIND  Weekdays: CNN.com's exclusive take on the election more videoVIDEO CNN's Bill Hemmer talks with Bush-Cheney's Marc Racicot. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Dana Bash on John Kerry in the Southwest. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED International team to monitor presidential election • Cartoon Clicks:  Terrorism • Bush team defends alert SPECIAL REPORT  • The Candidates: Bush | Kerry • The Issues • The Money • The Polls • Timeline • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Iraq  George W. Bush  John F. Kerry  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK, Arizona (CNN) -- Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry said Monday he would not have changed his vote to authorize the war against Iraq, but said he would have handled things "very differently" from President Bush.  Bush's campaign has challenged Kerry to give a yes-or-no answer about whether he stood by the October 2002 vote which gave Bush authority to use military force against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.  The question of going to war in Iraq has become a major issue on the campaign trail, especially in light of the fact that no weapons of mass destruction have been found there.  Intelligence reports that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction was a major rationale for going to war.  The U.S. senator from Massachusetts said the congressional resolution gave Bush "the right authority for the president to have."  But he told reporters on a campaign swing through Arizona, "I would have done this very differently from the way President Bush has." He challenged Bush to answer four questions.  "My question to President Bush is why did he rush to war without a plan to win the peace?" Kerry asked. "Why did he rush to war on faulty intelligence and not do the hard work necessary to give America the truth?  "Why did he mislead America about how he would go to war? Why has he not brought other countries to the table in order to support American troops in the way that we deserve it and relieve a pressure from the American people?  "There are four, not hypothetical questions like the president's, but real questions that matter to Americans," Kerry said. "And I hope you'll get the answers to those questions because the American people deserve them."  Bush's campaign has hammered Kerry over his vote to authorize military action and his vote a year later against $87 billion in funding for the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Kerry has said he voted against that measure because it would have financed the war with borrowed money. He voted for a defeated alternative that would have rolled back some of Bush's tax cuts to pay for the conflict.  The president told supporters Monday in Virginia that he still would have gone to war based on the evidence at hand at the time, and he challenged Kerry to say whether he would have cast the same vote.  More than 900 American troops have been killed in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 that deposed Saddam. No WMD arsenal has been found, although a few aging gas shells have been located, and U.S. inspectors have said Iraq tried to conceal some weapons-related research from U.N. weapons inspectors.  Bush said Iraq had the ability to build weapons of mass destruction and had been deceiving weapons inspectors, who reported no sign of banned weapons in Iraq in the weeks before the invasion.  "Everybody thought they would be there. We haven't found them yet," Bush said. "But he did have the capability of making weapons. Knowing what I know today, I would have made the same decision."  Kerry has said that if elected, he would work to recruit more U.S. allies to assist in stabilizing Iraq, where nearly 140,000 U.S. troops are still fighting to provide security for the country's interim government.  Kerry said his goal would be to reduce the number of American troops in Iraq within six months of taking office, but he said he would put more troops into the country "if the commanders ask for it."  "Obviously, we have to see how events unfold," he said. "The measurement has to be, as I've said all along, the stability of Iraq, the ability to have the elections, and the training and transformation of the Iraqi security force itself."  But he said if he could persuade other countries to contribute troops, reducing the U.S. contingent would be an "appropriate" goal.  
0 Woman makes history in Afghanistan Wednesday, October 6, 2004 Posted: 0633 GMT (1433 HKT)     RELATED • Karzai hits campaign trail • Strongman fights for political life • U.S. troop boost for Afghan vote • Facts:  Poll at a glance • Timeline: Turbulent history • Map of Afghanistan SPECIAL REPORT • Rebuilding Afghanistan • The Hunt for bin Laden more videoVIDEO An Afghan woman runs for president. premium contentPLAY VIDEO QUICKVOTE Will elections help to cement peace in Afghanistan? Yes No VIEW RESULTS YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Taliban  Afghanistan  Kabul  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? KABUL, Afghanistan (CNN) -- Massouda Jalal is making history by becoming the first Afghan woman ever to run for president.  "Three years back I could not even dream of being a presidential candidate," the 41-year-old mother of three says.  "And if I won what is the translation? The whole world would say the people of Afghanistan won the election, not gun, not dollar."  With less than a week to go, the only female candidate begs for more television time, organizes grassroots support, strategizes with her 70-year-old male running mate, and dreams of what could be.  With Afghanistan's first-ever presidential election set to take place on Saturday, the government estimates that 10 million Afghans have registered to vote.  The poll is seen as a crucial test for the war-torn nation's troubled transition to democracy after the fall of the Taliban nearly three years ago.  The hard-line Islamic regime was known for its harsh treatment of women. Under the Taliban, women were banned from working or going to school and were subjected to myriad dress code and travel restrictions.  But despite inroads being made, women are still not participating in the economy, political power, or leadership of the country.  So while she's a long shot to win, Massouda's candidacy is all about change.  In the capital Kabul women are being educated and can find work, but outside of the cities the majority of women can't leave their homes without permission from their fathers or brothers.  But a source of hope, says the United Nations, is that 41 percent of the registered voters are women.  Threats to women  story.afghan.family.afp.jpg Letters have been distributed to parts of Afghanistan warning women not to vote, a report says. In a busy market street in Kabul women are excited about voting and about their first female candidate.  "She's capable and deserves to be a candidate," says one shopper.  But in a bakery run by war widows, they shriek at the very thought.  "At no time could a woman become the leader of our country, never," says one local woman who goes by the name of Roya.  But these war widows say they will vote for anyone except candidates who represent the warlords who kept the country at war for 25 years.  In most provinces, people say the primary obstacle to democratic rule is the warlords, says John Sifton from the New York-based Human Rights Watch.  Particularly since some Afghan warlords share the Taliban's views on women.  A 36-page report released on Tuesday by the Human Rights Watch says Taliban insurgents and government-allied warlords are both guilty of intimidating women not to take part in the election.  "A pervasive atmosphere of fear persists for women involved in politics and women's rights in Afghanistan, despite significant improvements in women's lives since the fall of the Taliban," the report said.  So-called night letters distributed in many parts of the south and east have warned women not to vote, and four women were among 12 election workers killed in attacks in the months leading up to the vote.  But such threats could drive the vote towards Massouda.  "Afghanistan is completely ready for a woman president, people are tired of war, people cannot trust the fighters who were men," she says.  "So that's why they trust a woman, woman does not know how to fight at all, women were not involved in the fighting and bloodshed, the hands of a woman is clean."  Many women are hopeful that the election will add substance to freedoms anchored in a new constitution passed in January -- which enshrines equal rights for women and has been hailed as one of the more enlightened in the region. 
0 Bin Laden: Goal is to bankrupt U.S. Al-Jazeera releases full transcript of al Qaeda leader's tape Tuesday, November 2, 2004 Posted: 0107 GMT (0907 HKT)   story.binladen.jazeera.jpg Osama bin Laden delivers a videotaped message broadcast on Arabic-language network Al-Jazeera.   more videoVIDEO Bin Laden times message with U.S. election. premium contentPLAY VIDEO Kerry reacts to the videotape from Osama bin Laden premium contentPLAY VIDEO Bush responds to the new message from Osama bin Laden premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED • On the Scene:  Nasr: 'He's sending a message to the American people' • Partial transcript:  Bin Laden's message • Timeline: Terror on tape, bin Laden messages • Special Report:  The hunt for Osama bin Laden • U.S. probes pair of videotapes YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Osama Bin Laden  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? (CNN) -- The Arabic-language network Al-Jazeera released a full transcript Monday of the most recent videotape from Osama bin Laden in which the head of al Qaeda said his group's goal is to force America into bankruptcy.  Al-Jazeera aired portions of the videotape Friday but released the full transcript of the entire tape on its Web site Monday.  "We are continuing this policy in bleeding America to the point of bankruptcy. Allah willing, and nothing is too great for Allah," bin Laden said in the transcript.  He said the mujahedeen fighters did the same thing to the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the 1980s, "using guerrilla warfare and the war of attrition to fight tyrannical superpowers."  "We, alongside the mujahedeen, bled Russia for 10 years until it went bankrupt and was forced to withdraw in defeat," bin Laden said.  He also said al Qaeda has found it "easy for us to provoke and bait this administration."  "All that we have to do is to send two mujahedeen to the furthest point east to raise a piece of cloth on which is written al Qaeda, in order to make generals race there to cause America to suffer human, economic and political losses without their achieving anything of note other than some benefits for their private corporations," bin Laden said.  Al-Jazeera executives said they decided to post the entire speech because rumors were circulating that the network omitted parts that "had direct threats toward specific states, which was totally untrue."  "We chose the most newsworthy parts of the address and aired them. The rest was used in lower thirds in graphics format," said one official.  U.S. intelligence officials Monday confirmed that the transcript made public Monday by Al-Jazeera was a complete one.  As part of the "bleed-until-bankruptcy plan," bin Laden cited a British estimate that it cost al Qaeda about $500,000 to carry out the attacks of September 11, 2001, an amount that he said paled in comparison with the costs incurred by the United States.  "Every dollar of al Qaeda defeated a million dollars, by the permission of Allah, besides the loss of a huge number of jobs," he said. "As for the economic deficit, it has reached record astronomical numbers estimated to total more than a trillion dollars.  The total U.S. national debt is more than $7 trillion. The U.S. federal deficit was $413 billion in 2004, according to the Treasury Department.  "It is true that this shows that al Qaeda has gained, but on the other hand it shows that the Bush administration has also gained, something that anyone who looks at the size of the contracts acquired by the shady Bush administration-linked mega-corporations, like Halliburton and its kind, will be convinced.  "And it all shows that the real loser is you," he said. "It is the American people and their economy."  As for President Bush's Iraq policy, Bin Laden said, "the darkness of black gold blurred his vision and insight, and he gave priority to private interests over the public interests of America.  "So the war went ahead, the death toll rose, the American economy bled, and Bush became embroiled in the swamps of Iraq that threaten his future," bin Laden said.  U.S. government officials said Friday that the tape appeared to be authentic and recently made. It was the first videotaped message from the al Qaeda leader in nearly three years. 
0 Afghanistan's election challenge   By Soutik Biswas BBC News Online correspondent in Kabul  Afghan ballot paper Ballot-paper illustrations should help the illiterate make their choice In war-ravaged Afghanistan, holding the country's first election poses stiff challenges - harsh terrain, suspect security and simply ensuring that people cast their ballots properly. On 9 October Afghans will choose from 18 presidential candidates in some 25,000 polling stations across the country.  That is not all - Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries will be also casting their ballots.  Some 800,000 Afghans living in refugee camps in Iran are expected to turn up at the 1,000 polling stations on the same day.  And in Pakistan, another 1.5 million are expected to vote.  The election authorities are trying to keep the voting procedure simple and ensure that men and especially women - who comprise 41.3% of the electorate - come out and vote.  Indelible ink  Cartoons and posters will illustrate voting procedures to a largely illiterate population.  "Respectable women, give your vote because it is valuable," exhorts a colourful poster showing a group of women around ballot boxes.   AFGHAN VOTE Eighteen presidential candidates Over 10.5m Afghans registered to vote 41.3% of voters are women Men and women to vote in separate polling stations More than 25,000 polling stations About 5,000 counting centres More than 130,000 polling officials Officials believe that the use of cartoons and info-graphics during registration helped educate the people.  The ballot papers, printed in Canada, will contain photographs, names and symbols of all the candidates to make it easier for the voters to identify their choice.  Voters will mark their choice on the ballot paper with a pen - millions of pens have been ordered.  There will be separate polling stations for men and women.  Voters will have a thumb marked with indelible ink.  A big challenge is to find enough men and women to staff voting centres in a country where literacy is low.  State-run radio is spreading the word about the election, and some 1,200 "civic educators" will be going around the country to hire local polling officials.  Trucks and helicopters  Election logistics are also a considerable challenge in the country that has few good roads.  Afghanistan election poster Colourful posters exhort Afghanistan's women to vote Pick-ups, four-wheel drives, jeeps, airplanes, helicopters, horses and donkeys will be used to transport polling officials and materials to all over the country.  Bringing the 30,000 ballot boxes, built in Denmark, to the counting centres after the end of the voting will be another daunting exercise - an average of 3,000 ballot boxes will be moved to each centre.  "There will be convoys of trucks, five MI-8 helicopters, jeeps and hired vehicles bringing ballot boxes to the polling centres," says Julian Type of the Joint Electoral Management Body.  In some cases, it may take a week to bring the boxes down to the counting centres, he adds.  The ballots will be gathered in the presence of national and international poll observers and candidates' agents.  They will be counted in the provinces.  Skittish security  Security fears are running high ahead of the elections.  Afghan election poster A poster reminding Afghans to bring their registration cards to vote More than 20 people have died in recent violence - including an explosion in the capital, Kabul.  Much of the violence is blamed on Taleban or other militants who want to disrupt the elections.  At the offices of the election authorities, there are maps dividing the country into low, medium and high risk areas.  "The major conflict in Afghanistan has ceased, but security remains an ongoing concern," says Julian Type.  A top Europe-based election observer body has already said Afghanistan's skittish security environment would make it impossible to monitor the polls.  Some 12 people were killed and another 30 injured in election-related violence over the nine months it took to register voters, the UN says.  Many people were not able to register in the south and south-east because of threats by militants, officials say.  Registering refugees  International election officials, who are helping out in Afghanistan, say the situation is more serious than it was during recent elections in "post-conflict societies" like Cambodia and East Timor.  The 26,000-strong US and Nato-led peacekeeping forces say they are taking measures to tighten security.  But as a spokesman for the Nato-led forces said recently, "security can never be 100%".  The inking of voters thumbs has also raised fears they could be targeted by militants.  "The ink will last for only five days. After that time, no voter can be singled out. People have been largely supportive of the election," says Said Mohammad Azam of the Joint Electoral Management Body.  How long will it take for the votes to be counted and the results declared?  "This country has never experienced elections before," Mr Azam says. "The results may take two to three weeks."  Some analysts say the election is being held hastily.  The registration of the 1.5 million refugees in Pakistan will be completed by an international body barely a week before polling.  "Nobody expects the election to be smooth. But it has to be held to give a voice to Afghan people," says analyst Kazeem Ahang of Kabul University. 
0 Editor sacked over 'hoax' photos Piers Morgan The Mirror board said Morgan would be stepping down immediately Daily Mirror editor Piers Morgan has been sacked after the newspaper conceded photos of British soldiers abusing an Iraqi were fake. In a statement the Mirror said it had fallen victim to a "calculated and malicious hoax" and that it would be "inappropriate" for Morgan to continue.  The Queen's Lancashire Regiment (QLR) said the Mirror had endangered British troops by running the pictures.  Roger Goodman, of the QLR, said the regiment now felt "vindicated".  Mr Goodman added: "It is just a great pity it has taken so long... and that so much damage has been done in the meantime."   Daily Mirror picture The Daily Mirror... apologises unreservedly for publishing the pictures and deeply regrets the reputational damage done to the QLR and the Army in Iraq Mirror statement At a news conference in Preston on Friday afternoon, the regiment demonstrated to reporters aspects of uniform and equipment which it said proved the photographs were fake.  The regiment's Brigadier Geoff Sheldon said the vehicle featured in the photographs had been located in a Territorial Army base in Lancashire and had never been in Iraq.  He said the QLR's reputation had been damaged by the Mirror and asked the newspaper to apologise because the evidence they were staged was "overwhelming".  The Conservatives said they hoped lessons had been learned from the row.  Deputy leader and foreign affairs spokesman, Michael Ancram, said: ''Looking at the facts objectively, this is the right thing for Piers Morgan to have done.  "The photos that were published in the Daily Mirror have done great damage to the reputation of our troops, who are serving under some of the most difficult conditions in Iraq.''  'Recruiting poster for al-Qaeda'  The photos published in the Mirror on 1 May appeared to show British troops torturing an Iraqi detainee.  In one picture a soldier is seen urinating on a hooded man while in another the hooded man is being hit with a rifle in the groin.  Colonel Black, a former regiment commander of the QLR, said the pictures put lives in danger and acted as a "recruiting poster" for al-Qaeda.  However one of the Mirror's informants - Soldier C - said there had been abuse in Iraq.  The Territorial Army solider has been questioned by Royal Military Police after talking about his claims to the Daily Mirror.  On ITV's Tonight With Trevor McDonald he said: "It did go on, it wasn't all the army, it wasn't systematic but it did happen."  Downing Street refused to comment on the issue, saying it was a matter for the Mirror board.   This was about the life of British soldiers, and you can't tough it out when you're wrong Andrew Neil, former editor of the Sunday Times  Reaction to Morgan sacking The BBC's Nicholas Witchell said it appeared Piers Morgan remained unrepentant right to the end  "According to one report Mr Morgan refused the demand to apologise, was sacked and immediately escorted from the building," he said.  Morgan will be replaced on a temporary basis by his deputy, Des Kelly.  The newspaper released a statement saying: "The Daily Mirror published in good faith photographs which it absolutely believed were genuine images of British soldiers abusing an Iraqi prisoner.  "However there is now sufficient evidence to suggest that these pictures are fakes and that the Daily Mirror has been the subject of a calculated and malicious hoax.  "The Daily Mirror therefore apologises unreservedly for publishing the pictures and deeply regrets the reputational damage done to the QLR and the Army in Iraq.  "The paper will continue to cooperate fully with the investigation.  "The board of Trinity Mirror has decided that it would be inappropriate for Piers Morgan to continue in his role as editor of the Daily Mirror and he will therefore be stepping down with immediate effect."  The Sun newspaper had offered a £50,000 reward for "information about the fake Mirror photos" but withdrew the offer following the sacking of Morgan. 
0 Afghan torture trial begins in UK Zardad Sarwar/Khan Mr Zardad's trial was opened by Attorney General Lord Goldsmith The trial of an Afghan man charged with conspiring to kidnap and torture in his homeland has begun in London. Faryadi Sarwar Zardad denies charges relating to a period from 1991-96, while he was an alleged warlord.  The case is the first of its kind to be tried at the Old Bailey, said Attorney General Lord Goldsmith, prosecuting.  Mr Zardad's defence counsel urged jurors to keep an open mind about the allegations and consider whether witnesses might have "an axe to grind".  Section 134 of the Criminal Justice Act allows Britain to try alleged torturers regardless of where the crime is alleged to have occurred.   They would beat, wound and even shoot and kill civilians Lord Goldsmith Attorney General  Modern court makes legal history It was adopted in 1988 in line with the United Nations Convention Against Torture.  Although the matters did not concern the UK, Lord Goldsmith said some crimes are so heinous they can be tried in any country.  He told the court Mr Zardad, 41, was a war lord in charge of the Sarobi area outside the Afghan capital Kabul, at a time of much internal fighting.  "He wanted a fearsome reputation of being cruel and merciless at his military checkpoints, so that people passing through would obey them absolutely and give them money and goods," he said.  'Unwarranted violence'  He also stopped supplies getting through to a rival party in Kabul.  The court heard the defendant and his soldiers used "indiscriminate and unwarranted violence".  "They would beat, wound and even shoot and kill civilians. They would detain and imprison them and hold them for ransom," he said.  He told the jury a "human dog" was kept in a hole and set on passers-by to bite and attack them.   Zardad must have known and consented to the infliction of severe pain and suffering on this witness Lord Goldsmith "In pursuing that course of conduct it was inevitable that they would commit the crimes of torture and hostage taking," he said.  Lord Goldsmith said one witness would give evidence he was beaten three times at a checkpoint in Sarobi.  "He saw Zardad on two occasions with a large number of bodyguards at the main checkpoint in Sarobi," the Attorney General said.  "Zardad must have known and consented to the infliction of severe pain and suffering on this witness."  Another would tell how he was abducted, tortured and witnessed the deaths of 24 fellow prisoners during a five-month detention, he said.  'Hate figure'  But defence counsel Anthony Jenning, told the jurors not to be prejudiced by the nature of the allegations against Mr Zardad.  The Afghan had fought both the Russians and the Taleban in his homeland, he said, at which time many regarded him as a peasant freedom fighter.  Mr Jennings said Mr Zardad's power between 1992 and 1996 had made him a "hate figure" to opponents and may have inspired propaganda against him.  "No-one doubts there were atrocities committed by warring factions," he said.  "But Mr Zardad is not here to bear some general responsibility for that. He is here to stand trial for specific allegations."  Pizza restaurant  Explaining the charges, Lord Goldsmith said torture was committed if a public official or person acting in an official capacity intentionally inflicted suffering on another in performance or purported performance of official duties.  He said Mr Zardad had admitted acting in an official capacity in the region while a commander in the Hezb-i Islami - the Islamic Party.  And he had admitted his command was based outside Sarobi on the Kabul side.  It was for the jury to decide on the evidence whether Zardad was implicated in the incidents alleged, he said.  The jury will hear from witnesses in Afghanistan via a video link and be shown video footage.  Zardad Sarwar, 42, of Gleneagle Road, Streatham, south London, listened to the case against him through an interpreter in the dock.  Mr Sarwar - also known as Zardad Khan - moved to Britain in 1998 and was running a pizza restaurant in south London when he was arrested in July 2003. 
0 Galloway: Bombings price of Iraq George Galloway Mr Galloway was a vocal opponent of the Iraq war Londoners have paid the price for Iraq and Afghanistan, says George Galloway. The Respect MP, whose Bethnal Green and Bow constituency includes the site of at least one of the bomb attacks, said the attacks were "despicable".  He told the Commons it was the US-led coalition's actions in Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantanamo which had inflamed hatred of the West in the Muslim world.  But minister Adam Ingram accused Mr Galloway of "dipping his poisonous tongue in a pool of blood".  The armed forces minister added that Mr Galloway's comments were "disgraceful".  Same mistakes?  Earlier Mr Galloway said he was absolutely clear the bombings had been carried out by Islamic extremists inspired by Osama Bin Laden's world outlook.   I don't believe Mr Blair or Mr Bush are capable of solving this problem  Galloway unapolagetic on Blair He argued that the bombings had not come out of the "clear blue sky" - the background was the invasion of Afghanistan, Iraq, photographs of abuses by US troops at Abu Ghraib prison and the continuing confinement of people by America at Guantanamo.  Mr Galloway said the West was in danger of making the same mistakes over and over again, continuing with "war and occupation as the principal instrument of our foreign and defence policy".  He added: "And if we do then some people will get through and hurt us as they have hurt us today."  Paid the price?  Mr Galloway who was expelled from the Labour Party over his outspoken comments on the Iraq war, linked the deaths of people in London to the deaths of those in Falluja at the hands of coalition forces.  Earlier, in a statement, the MP said: "The loss of innocent lives, whether in this country or Iraq, is precisely the result of a world that has become a less safe and peaceful place in recent years.  "We have worked without rest to remove the causes of such violence from our world.  "We argued, as did the security services in this country, that the attacks on Afghanistan and Iraq would increase the threat of terrorist attack in Britain.  "Tragically Londoners have now paid the price of the government ignoring such warnings."  'No immunity'  Mr Galloway urged the government to remove people in the UK from "harm's way" by ending the occupation of Iraq and focusing on finding a real solution to conflicts in the Middle East.  Downing Street declined to comment on Mr Galloway's comments.  But Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said it was wrong to think that withdrawing from Iraq would make the UK immune from the threat of attacks.  "People have to remember that 11 September was in 2001 before the military action," he said.  The attacks on the US had caused the action in Afghanistan and the changed atmosphere they had created had contributed to the cause of the Iraq war, said Mr Straw. 
0 Quandary of Afghan opium industry By Andrew North BBC Kabul correspondent  Yet again, an alarming study on the rise in opium production in Afghanistan - source for most of the world's supplies of heroin. An Afghan farmer works in a wheat field that has replaced opium poppy Aid agencies think radical measures like eradication would backfire Like many previous surveys, the annual report from the International Narcotics Control Board warns of the risk to the country's stability, because of a near record opium poppy harvest last year.  In fact, there is nothing new here, as far as Afghanistan's opium trade is concerned.  The figures in the report were all released last November by the INCB's sister organisation, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).  But the key and still unresolved issue is what to do about the problem.  On one side of the debate is the US government - cautiously backed by the UK - which wants an aggressive programme of eradicating or cutting down opium crops over the next few months.  On the other side are development agencies, who say the focus on eradication will not work and that there is no chance of significant change until the farmers who grow opium are offered viable "alternative livelihoods".  Somewhere in the middle is President Hamid Karzai and his government. He has promised a "holy war" against the opium trade, which he describes as a "disgrace" to his nation.  But he too is concerned about pressing farmers too hard.   We expect the government to help us. If not, we will have to grow poppy again Afghan farmer Although the UK still officially leads international efforts to fight the Afghan drugs trade, the US has effectively taken over - having earmarked $780m (£408m) for anti-narcotics programmes over the next year.  It paid the issue only limited attention in the first few years after the fall of the Taleban. The war on terror took precedence.  That laid-back attitude has gone, amid fears that the drugs trade now threatens Afghanistan's stability, and therefore US political and reconstruction goals here.  'Colombia-style war'  But aid agencies are concerned that current US strategy calls for the destruction of up to 30,000 hectares of poppy fields over the coming year - about 25% of the area cultivated in 2004.  It is pouring millions into funding "eradication teams" to cut down poppy crops.  Some have accused the US and British governments of secretly spraying already in eastern and south-western Afghanistan as part of this policy, although both have strenuously denied it.  British Foreign Minister Jack Straw, left, with Afghan President Hamid Karzai The UK has vowed to help Afghanistan eradicate heroin trade According to one development expert who did not want to be named: "The US is starting another Colombia-style war on drugs here."  American officials in Kabul dismiss this.  The issue that has done most to encourage such criticism is talk of aerial spraying. They say they resisted pressure from Washington for it to be implemented.  Along with US military commanders, they fear the potential unrest it could provoke - particularly with parliamentary elections due later this year.  They also point out that large sums are going into alternative incomes for farmers.  Thai solution  Nonetheless, aerial spraying is still an option US anti-drugs officials are considering for next year. And they insist that some eradication has to take place this year.  Many in the development community totally disagree.  "Eradication has never worked," says Leo Brandenberg of the German development agency GTZ, which runs a European-funded aid project for farmers in the eastern province of Nangahar - the second most important opium growing area.  A Thai volunteer destroys opium poppies during the opium eradication Thailand's "enlightened approach" proved successful A more "enlightened approach" is needed, he argues - something like that followed by Thailand in dealing with its illegal opium trade in the 1980s - a policy in which Mr Brandenberg was himself involved.  The Thai authorities gave opium farmers a "grace period" of four years.  They were given help to find alternatives, and only when that time had elapsed were they penalised for growing poppy.  Instead, the Thai government focused on breaking up heroin processing and trafficking networks - where the big profits are made.  "There were many battles," says Mr Brandenberg, "but it worked".  He admits Thailand had two major advantages over Afghanistan: far better security, and money.  Political consequences  In any case, the opium trade was always small in relation to the rest of the Thai economy. But in Afghanistan, it accounts for 40% to 60% of economic output, depending on which estimate you accept.  That is another reason why other aid agencies argue against drastic measures like eradication. It could cause real hardship.  Alternative livelihood programmes and tougher action against traffickers have to come first, says Michael Kleinman of Care Afghanistan.  "It's critical these initiatives be phased in before eradication, if eradication must occur," he says.  The irony of this debate is that there are signs that this year's opium crop will be much smaller.  Afghan billboard reading "poppy cultivators are criminals who bring disasters to Afghanistan and the world". Some two million Afghans are involved in opium production It is too early to be sure, but the BBC has seen evidence in some poppy growing areas that some farmers are heeding government warnings not to plant it.  But as one farmer in Nangahar put it: "We expect the government to help us. If not, we will have to grow poppy again."  That is the fear among many aid agencies - that any progress this year could be squandered because not enough effort has been put into alternative livelihood schemes.  Another concern is the lack of progress in going after the bigger players in the drugs trade.  A UK-trained specialist anti-drugs police force has carried out a series of raids on heroin labs, although the evidence is never shown publicly.  A few mid-level traffickers have been imprisoned, but for the most part the drugs mafia have little to fear from a still very weak Afghan police and judiciary.  And with parliamentary elections planned for this year, many analysts here fear that the government will yet again put off serious action, for fear of the political consequences.  But Mr Brandenberg advises everyone to be patient. It took 20 years to turn things round in Thailand, he says. "It is likely to take much longer here." 
0 All quiet on Afghanistan's western front   By Andrew North BBC News, at Shindand airbase, Western Afghanistan  Abandoned Migs at Shindand airfield 'Mig tipping' 'is a favourite pastime of bored troops Shattered Soviet war-planes, desert scrub, a battered runway and a cluster of shell-scarred buildings patched up with wooden boards.  When you fly into Shindand airfield you have to look hard to spot any sign of activity, let alone that it is the US military's main base in western Afghanistan.  This huge Soviet-built base has been the focus of speculation over possible US operations against Iran - about 50 miles away to the west.  But it is the debris of past wars, rather than preparations for future ones, that dominate the scene right now.  Nuclear installations  The war junk sometimes serves as entertainment for bored troops. Some while away off-duty hours by what they call "Mig-tipping" - standing on the back end of those Soviet warplanes until they lift up.  QUICK GUIDE  Afghanistan What sparked greater interest in the American presence here was a New Yorker magazine article claiming US special forces teams had been crossing into Iran from Afghanistan for some time, allegedly seeking out nuclear installations and other potential targets.  Shindand - which has been under US control since only August last year - was seen as the most likely starting point.  But the American commander for the region denies Iran is the focus for the US troops he controls.  Rumours fuelled  "The US presence in western Afghanistan is for reconstruction and economic development. We have done no operations along the Iranian border, and I have no knowledge of operations along the Iranian border," says Col Phil Bookert at his headquarters in Herat city, two hours drive to the north.   "That is not why we are here," he continues. "We're here to do reconstruction and economic development activities in Herat and Farah provinces, and they happen to border Iran.  "We do reconstruction activities between here and Iran, but we certainly don't cross the border."  He was careful though when pressed further: "I have no knowledge of coalition operations into Iran looking for anything."  Of course, if such operations were taking place from here, it is unlikely most of the soldiers at Shindand - the bulk of them military police - would be told.  Speculation continues  Comments by the influential Republican Senator John McCain, calling for permanent US bases in Afghanistan have also helped fuel rumours about plans for Shindand - one of the largest airfields in the country.  Soviet wreckage at Shindand airfield Relics of the previous occupying power are everywhere Although troops have repaired key parts of the base including holes in the runway - some caused by US bombing in 2001 - there is little sign Shindand is being prepared for a larger role just yet.  There are only a few hundred US troops here. And none of the constant clatter and roar of helicopters that you find at other US bases like Kandahar or Bagram.  And the plan is for the US to hand over the base later this year to an Italian-led contingent serving with the Nato peacekeeping troops.  But this would still allow the US to use the base, defence experts point out. As long as there is tension between Washington and Tehran, speculation will continue as to America's plans for Shindand. 
0 Polystyrene homes planned for Afghans By Clark Boyd Technology correspondent  Many people in Afghanistan have lost everything, including their own houses, during the country's long decades of war. Aftermath of 1998 quake in northern Afghanistan Earthquakes in Afghanistan have cost many their homes Rebuilding usually means putting up the same mud-brick structures used for centuries.  But those homes become death-traps during the frequent earthquakes that hit the area.  Now, some American scientists, engineers and architects think they have a better way to rebuild Afghanistan, using polystyrene.  Leading the project is the Washington-based Federation of American Scientists (FAS).  Affordable, strong homes  The organisation are particularly interested in finding new ways of making homes safer, and more efficient, especially for those across the globe who live in sub-standard housing.  "We got very interested in Afghanistan after seeing some of the devastation from earthquakes over there, and the fact that the US was about to rebuild a lot of housing over there," said Henry Kelly, FAS president.  Thermapanel house in the Dominican Republic The materials have been used for homes in the Dominican Republic "So, we put a team together to see what we could do to focus on that particular market."  The FAS set a challenge for the scientific community - design a house that is affordable, energy efficient, and earthquake-resistant.  That meant finding a cheap, lightweight material that could easily be adapted to the Afghan building style.  They found the answer in Florence, Alabama, in the shape of H H "Hoot" Haddock.  He has spent the last 20 years, and millions of his own dollars, developing a building system that uses polystyrene.  "The polystyrene foam that we use is just like the stuff you drink out of," said Mr Haddock.  Testing materials  Polystyrene foam is a great insulator. It keeps cool things cool, and hot things hot. And it is also resistant to moisture, mould and mildew.  Mr Haddock uses the foam to make insulated building panels, which he says can endure extreme conditions.  Pick-up truck on a panel The panels can take the weight of a pick-up truck "We built our first house in 1984," he said. "It was a 2,000 square foot house in Alaska, where we have the highest wind loads, the most earthquakes, and the heaviest snow loads.  "That house, I stayed in it the last two weeks, with my daughter. It's performing perfectly, no problems with it, and we do have buildings all over the world, pretty much, and it sounds like we may be going to a lot of other places."  The Federation of American Scientists wants to export Mr Haddock's method to Afghanistan.  The group is now conducting tests, including an earthquake simulation, to ensure that the foam housing is as safe as Mr Haddock says it is.  Rachel Jagoda, the Federation's Project Manager for Housing Technology, says one of the advantages to the Haddock idea is that polystyrene products are made all over the world.  "There's not somewhere in Afghanistan at the moment manufacturing them, simply because they've had such trouble with economic development since the 70s frankly," she said.  "But you can get them over in Pakistan."  In Afghanistan, the foam would be wrapped in a low-tech layer of chicken wire, then covered in a thin layer of concrete.  Living in polystyrene  The Federation of American Scientists contends that the foam houses are easy to put up.  It has asked architect Harry van Burick, of the US-based group Shelter for Life International, to design a two-room starter home for Afghans, using the foam panel system.  New Harmony House, designed by Roger Rasbach using SIPs. Courtesy Jane Owen The New Harmony House in the US is seen as potential model The organisation has been building houses in Afghanistan for 25 years and Mr van Burick can see the potential of the technology, though he admits selling the idea will take some work.  "That is the challenge," he said, "people have to accept it, that it's absolutely safe to live in a Styrofoam house, safer than in an adobe house.  "Let them feel it. Let them dance on it. Let them see that it is strong."  The project faces another challenge - the ongoing violence in Afghanistan which has disrupted the work of many non-governmental organisations.  The group Doctors without Borders pulled out of the country earlier this week.  Because of the unsettled situation in Afghanistan, the FAS is reluctant to set a specific start date for its project.  But the group hopes to build its first foam house in Kabul by the end of this year.  Clark Boyd is technology correspondent for The World, a BBC World Service and WGBH-Boston co-production 
0 US 'war is fun' general rebuked By Adam Brookes BBC News Pentagon correspondent  US Marine Gen James Mattis Gen Mattis described fighting as 'a hell of a hoot' The US Marine Corps has publicly upbraided one of its generals for his comments describing shooting people in Iraq as "fun".  Discussing fighting in Iraq, the General said he liked brawling and enjoyed shooting people.  The Marine Corps said Lt Gen James Mattis had been "counselled" concerning his remarks, made during a panel discussion in California.  The general had agreed he should have chosen his words more carefully.  Gen Mattis is a hardened veteran of combat and appears to have developed a taste for it.  During the discussion, he spoke of his experience fighting in Iraq as commander of the 1st Marine Division.  Public gaffe  Caught on tape, he said: "Actually, it's quite a lot of fun to fight; you know, it's a hell of a hoot. I like brawling; it's fun to shoot some people."  In the context of Afghanistan, he said men who slapped around women for not wearing a veil had no manhood and it was fun to shoot them.  The commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen Mike Hagee, later issued a statement saying he had counselled Gen Mattis on his remarks.  The statement praised Gen Mattis as a brave and brilliant military leader and it seems there will be no disciplinary action. 
0 TV show aims to be Afghan Oprah   By Soutik Biswas BBC News, Kabul  Afghan women The war left many Afghan women mentally scarred At the well-secured offices of the Tolo TV station in Kabul, presenter Farzana Samimi is getting ready for a new show called Banu - "woman" in the Dari language. The 27-year-old veterinary science and psychology major turned TV presenter says the show is about problems faced by Afghan women - largely a taboo subject.  Three times a week for the past month, Ms Samimi has teamed up with a Kabul-based psychiatrist, Mohammed Yasin Babrak, to talk about the "psychological and social problems" of women.  Today's subject is about the common fears that women usually have, says Ms Samimi, who thought up the programme.  In a poky blue-walled studio, the presenter and doctor sit on beige leather seats across a wooden table.  A ceramic tea pot and three cups on the table complete the minimalist setting.  Common fears  Ms Samimi begins by asking Dr Babrak about the fears women usually have.  The discussion drags a little - a long talkathon on phobias.    Women in Afghanistan have no control over their destiny Farzana Samimi But even this is quite revolutionary in war-ravaged Afghanistan, where women are still struggling to make their voices heard, four years after the demise of the Taleban.  Banu aspires to become an Oprah Winfrey clone, where women can sit around a table or phone in to discuss their problems.  "Most Afghan women cannot pour their hearts out to anyone when they have a problem. We hope to make this programme their pulpit, so to speak," says Ms Samimi.  The daughter of an engineer father who now lives with her homemaker mother in Turkey, Ms Samimi believes Afghan women are among the worst off in the world.  "They have not got their rights in family and society. Even if she wants to change her hairstyle, she has to get her husband's permission. They have no control over their destiny. Obviously, they suffer many problems, including mental ones," she says.  Ms Samimi was luckier than most Afghan women - she chose a calling in television after training to be a psychologist. Her siblings have been lucky too - one sister is a doctor, the other painter, and the third is studying economics.  She says she thought up the show after watching the plight of women go from bad to worse over the war-ravaged years in Afghanistan.  Scars of war  Dr Babrak came in handy to answer questions - the Pakistan-trained psychiatrist sees some 40 women patients at his Kabul chamber every week.  The nearly three-decade-long civil war impacted on women most in Afghanistan.  In Kabul alone, 30,000 were left as widows and the only earning members of their family, according to one estimate.  During the civil war, women were killed, raped and abused by the various warlord-led militias.  "Most of the women who come to me don't know what is going wrong with them. Most of them suffer from forgetfulness, mood swings, schizophrenia," says Dr Babrak.  Women exercising in a gym in Herat, Western Afghanistan Women are trying to make their voices heard He talks to them and sometimes prescribes pills. But long-term psychotherapy for women patients is still impossible.  "This is a traditional country. There is no concept of a shrink's couch here," says Dr Babrak.  So Banu is one way of telling women how they may be able to cope with their problems without visiting a doctor.  The afternoon show seemed to have struck a chord already - women have begun writing in about their problems, and calling in after watching the programme.  Ms Samimi is already a star in the making for her women viewers and has stopped going to markets as "people bother me".  She confesses she feels "scared sometimes" hosting a show for women - a former presenter for Tolo TV, who used to work for a popular youth music show, was shot dead by unknown gunmen in Kabul in May.  "My husband really does not want me to do this programme because of security fears. But I still manage because I want to do something for women," she says.  Only time will tell whether Banu picks up and becomes a talking point in Afghanistan, but for the moment the plucky presenter and good doctor will soldier on. 
0 Life in an Afghan village By Soutik Biswas BBC News, northern Afghanistan  Afghan village On Tuesday the BBC devoted time to finding out more about what life is like for the people of Afghanistan in a day of special coverage.  As part of the project we invited you to send your e-mails from around the world to the six Afghans below who live in this village north of the capital, Kabul.  About 300 families live in the village, most of them are Pashtuns. During Afghanistan's civil war, the Taleban destroyed many homes and burned the vines that are a key part of the villagers' economy.  They are rebuilding their lives, but under extremely difficult conditions.  Watch villagers' opinions Haji Abdullah Saleh Shaista Gul Khan  Lal Bibi Shukrullah Rahmat Gul Click on the links above to read more about the villagers.  HAJI ABDULLAH SALEH, 56, village elder Haji Abdullah Saleh Haji Abdullah Saleh is one of the revered elders in the village - he is a well-to-do landlord who owns some 3,000 vines and is one of the judges in Afghanistan's Supreme Court.  A masters degree in Islamic law led to a three-decade long career as a lawyer and fetched him the coveted job of a judge - he is among the 3,000 judges in the country's fledgling justice system. During the rule of the Taleban, he was fired from his job because he "went to some foreign countries".  He says he is appalled by the rising incidences of murder cases in the country. Saleh believes the infrastructure of his villages needs to improve vastly. "The biggest problem facing Afghanistan is poverty and illiteracy", he says.  The father of eight children - all sons, one of them going to engineering school - he believes the foreign troops need to stay in Afghanistan to bring about its much-needed stability.  Return to the top SHAISTA, 14, schoolgirl Shaista The daughter of a daily wage worker, Shaista wants to become a doctor when she grows up.  "Education is important," she says. "If I become doctor, I will rid people of their diseases and earn money too."  Shaista has four sisters and three brothers - most of them are going to school. She is happy that the war is over and the family were able to return from a wretched refugee life in Pakistan.  When they returned home, they found they had lost their home and mulberry trees. The family has some vines, but no water to grow the fruit.  There is no time to watch movies because their home has no electricity and there is no television. "And my father says, keep studying all the time," she says.  Return to the top GUL KHAN, 25, day labourer Gul Khan Gul Khan returned home from 20 years scraping a living as a refugee in Pakistan only two years ago. He did not finish his education.  He lives with his wife and three children and says he barely gets 10-12 days of work every month, usually slogging on somebody else's farm for about $3 a day.  He says he used to find more work in Pakistan, "but the police would harass me and take my money".  He is glad to be back home and happy to see the war is over. But there is little work - "too much tension, very little work," he says. He is eager to work more to rebuild his life, but there is not much work around. "But the future is here, at home," he says, smiling weakly.  Return to the top LAL BIBI, 45, widow Lal Bibi Twelve years ago, Lal Bibi's husband went to war and never returned home. The couple had been married for just five years.  Today, the childless widow lives with her ageing mother and barely manages to eke out a decent living selling eggs and buying and selling goats.  It's a hard life for a widow in Afghanistan, she says.  "There should be more opportunities for women like me to work for a living. Widows and poor women are in the worst condition in our society."  Lal Bibi's gnarled and shivering hands betray her failing health. "There's not much to do for me, tending to my chickens and my mother."  Return to the top SHUKRULLAH, 18, student Shukrullah For nearly four hours a day, Shukrullah goes to the village school learning science, Dari, geometry, geography and history.  The rest of the time, he helps his father knit carpets which will earn the family $170 after the carpet is made and sold.  Father and son knit only one carpet a month.  He would love to spend more time in school. Geography is his favourite subject. Iran is a country of his dreams from geography lessons.  Shukrullah has five siblings. He wants to become a civil engineer when he grows up, building roads. "Road building is good for our country," he says.  He has no time for games or movies - "I study and knit carpets, that's my life."  Return to the top RAHMAT GUL, 46, teacher Rahmat Gul Rahmat Gul studied biology and chemistry but ended up as a teacher of Pashto because of a dearth of language teachers.  Today, he makes a living from his $50 a month job teaching Pashtu at a Kabul school and from selling fruit from his 500 vines. All his seven children go to school.  Gul says his village's reputation as a prime grape growing area has not meant much for its residents who still cannot plant trees because of lack of water.  Some 15 years as a teacher have convinced Gul that education is the key to Afghanistan's future success as a nation.  "We could just export our grapes and become rich. But where is the water, where are the canals?" he asks. 
0 Red Army's 'ghosts' of Afghanistan By Tom Coghlan BBC News, Baghlan province, northern Afghanistan  Former Red Army soldier Nasratullah Nasratullah has built a new life in Afghanistan [Photos: Veronique de Vigeurie] To the men of the Red Army who fought in Afghanistan, their elusive mujahideen enemy were always called simply the "Dukhi" - the ghosts. But when their last tank rolled back across the Oxus river in February 1989, the then Soviets left behind some Cold War ghosts of their own.  In the hills of northern Afghanistan, there are still men with pale skin who talk Russian when they are together.  Until 1981, Nasratullah was a soldier in the Red Army called Nikolai.  Together with two others, now known as Rahmatullah and Aminullah, he survives from a total of five Soviet soldiers known to have been captured and converted to Islam.  They went on to fight against their old comrades with the mujahideen.  'Terrible fight'  The ill-fated Soviet adventure in Afghanistan is often compared to America's disastrous foray into Vietnam.  QUICK GUIDE  Afghanistan Russia says 13,000 Soviet soldiers were lost between 1979 and 1989.  An estimated 1.3m Afghans, mainly civilians, also died.  Today, 45-year-old Nasratullah is a softly spoken, melancholic, chain smoker who earns $80 a month as a policeman.  But until his conversion to Islam, he was a junior officer from an elite Soviet parachute regiment.  He agreed to be interviewed only with the encouragement of his former mujahideen comrades. He remains close to the men who first captured him.   I didn't choose to convert. The religion chose me Nasratullah "We captured Nasratullah during an ambush in Kaligai village in 1981," recalls his white bearded former commander, Sufi Payda Mohammed, eyes rimmed with kohl.  His mujahideen band operated in the steep-sided valleys of Baghlan province, along the key re-supply route from the Uzbek border to Kabul.  The mujahideen commander remembers "a very terrible fight" during which they killed around 20 Soviet soldiers.  Nikolai was the sole survivor, captured after he exhausted his ammunition and hid in a drainage ditch under the road.  The area around what was known as Soviet Base 80 is still littered with the rusting tanks and destroyed supply vehicles.  Local people say Russian embassy officials returned to the area last year offering cash rewards for the location of the graves of missing Soviet soldiers. They left with six exhumed bodies.  Deserter  Nasratullah himself tells a different, more ideologically-driven version of how he came to fall into mujahideen hands.  He says he witnessed a massacre of more than 70 civilians at Kaligai.  Former mujahideen commander Sufi Payda Mohammed Sufi Mohammed says he captured Nasratullah in an ambush "We swore in the Russian army on the sword and the Bible to help society. It was against the law what was done," he says.  In horror and disgust, he says he simply turned and walked away from his unit.  Prisoners were often killed by both sides, but Nikolai was found by villagers who cared for him and then passed him to the mujahideen.  It was a year, he says, before he decided to convert. During that time he helped to mend mechanical equipment.  "I didn't choose to convert," he says today. "The religion chose me."  His former captors deny that any of the men were forced to become Muslims, or did so through fear.  Amnesty  They were renamed by the clerics who converted them. Nasratullah then spent eight years in the frontline with the mujahideen.  A derelict and abandoned Soviet tank Remnants of the Soviet campaign litter the Afghan landscape According to his comrades, the Soviet converts were decent fighters and particularly useful for listening to Soviet radio traffic.  "If you are in the frontline then you must fight and you must kill," is all he will say about fighting against his countrymen.  Nasratullah says he was born in 1960, in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. He will not give his last name.  His father was also a soldier in the Red Army and Nikolai attended a military academy, which he will not identify.  He volunteered for service in Afghanistan and served there for three months before his capture.  In July 1988, Moscow offered an amnesty to all Soviet prisoners of war in Afghanistan, whatever they had done during their captivity.  None of the Soviet converts took the offer, though all have visited their former homeland since the war.  "They said that they felt like white pigeons among black crows in Russia," says Sufi Muhammed.  "They told us 'we were devout and wanted to pray, but our families had no belief and didn't understand us'."  Disillusionment  When he visited Ukraine in 1996, Nasratullah met some of his old Red Army comrades.   I have a good life here, though the economy is not very good Nasratullah He says he was relieved when they did not blame him for his conversion, or for joining the mujahideen.  Like many of the veterans of Vietnam, the Soviet veterans have suffered wide disillusionment.  There were mass protests in June by some of the Ukraine's 150,000 Afghan war veterans, many of whom survive on a state pension of $40 a month.  "Russia and Afghanistan are not so different," says Nasratullah. "I have a good life here, though the economy is not very good."  Under the Taleban, Nasratullah and his fellow Soviets came to the attention of leader Mullah Mohammed Omar who, impressed with their devout lives, gave them homes and businesses.  All three have local wives and families. Three years ago, Nasratullah had a daughter he named Mosal.  But after the Taleban fell in 2001, the houses were reclaimed and none of the three is considered rich.  Locally, they are regarded as curiosities, and admired for being devout.  Nasratullah says that while he has the support of his old mujahideen comrades and his Islamic faith he will never leave Afghanistan. 
0 Afghanistan to pursue opium war A farmer extracting opium from a poppy blossom Aid agencies say farmers need to be offered alternative livelihoods The Afghan government says it will press ahead with a poppy eradication programme despite strong resistance from farmers in the south. A farmer was killed and several others injured in clashes with anti-drugs forces near Kandahar on Tuesday.  The destruction of crops was halted while officials tried to persuade village elders to support the drive.  Aid agencies say opium crop growers need to be given alternative livelihoods if the policy is to work.  Click here to see a map showing the opium poppy cultivation The government says villagers' demands for an alternative way to earn a living have to be seriously considered.  'Narco-state'  More than 1,000 farmers took part in the violent protest against the destruction of poppy fields in the village of Maiwand, 80km (50 miles) west of the southern city of Kandahar on Tuesday.  Additional police had been sent to Maiwand to support the anti-drugs force when it resumes its work, Afghan interior ministry spokesman Lutfullah Mashal told Reuters news agency.  "We expect to start the operation after the talks and after addressing the concerns of the people over the destruction of their fields," Mr Mashal said.  The eradication programme in other parts of the country was going on as normal, he added.  Cultivation of opium, which is used to make heroin, fell in many areas in the past year - having spiralled after the fall of the Taleban regime.  Afghanistan supplied more than 80% of the world's demand for heroin last year, according to the UN.  It says the country is at risk of becoming a "narco-state" unless action is taken to stop production and trafficking gangs.  Afghan President Hamid Karzai has promised a "holy war" against the opium trade which he has described as a "disgrace" to the nation.  The US, France and the UK have been training police units to destroy crops, dismantle heroin labs and arrest smugglers while helping farmers switch to legal crops.  The US has earmarked $780m (£408m) for anti-narcotics programmes for 2005.  But the plan to destroy up to 30,000 hectares of poppy fields this year - about 25% of land cultivated in 2004 - has alarmed aid agencies.  They say the policy - in particular, aerial spraying of crops - has the potential to create civil unrest and could bring hardship to farmers who live off opium cultivation.  They say farmers need to be offered alternative livelihoods if they are to be persuaded to abandon opium crops. 
0 How did rape become a weapon of war? By Laura Smith-Spark BBC News  Displaced Sudanese woman at Mornay camp, western Darfur The UN has accused the Janjaweed militia in Sudan of using mass rape Women's bodies have become part of the terrain of conflict, according to a new report by Amnesty International. Rape and sexual abuse are not just a by-product of war but are used as a deliberate military strategy, it says.  The opportunistic rape and pillage of previous centuries has been replaced in modern conflict by rape used as an orchestrated combat tool.  And while Amnesty cites ongoing conflicts in Colombia, Iraq, Sudan, Chechnya, Nepal and Afghanistan, the use of rape as a weapon of war goes back much further.  Spoils of war?  From the systematic rape of women in Bosnia, to an estimated 200,000 women raped during the battle for Bangladeshi independence in 1971, to Japanese rapes during the 1937 occupation of Nanking - the past century offers too many examples.  So what motivates armed forces, whether state-backed troops or irregular militia, to attack civilian women and children?  Gita Sahgal, of Amnesty International, told the BBC News website it was a mistake to think such assaults were primarily about the age-old "spoils of war", or sexual gratification.  Rape is often used in ethnic conflicts as a way for attackers to perpetuate their social control and redraw ethnic boundaries, she said.  "Women are seen as the reproducers and carers of the community," she said.   Women were raped so they could give birth to a Serbian baby Medecins Sans Frontieres report "Therefore if one group wants to control another they often do it by impregnating women of the other community because they see it as a way of destroying the opposing community."  A report by Medecins Sans Frontieres says it first came across rape as a weapon in the 1990s.  "In Bosnia systematic rape was used as part of the strategy of ethnic cleansing," it said.  "Women were raped so they could give birth to a Serbian baby."  The same tactic was used in a "very strategic attack" by state-backed Pakistani troops during the fight for Bangladesh's independence in 1971, Ms Sahgal said.  South Korean former "comfort women" hold a weekly anti-Japan rally in Seoul Ex-"comfort women" in Korea hold a weekly rally demanding reparations "They were saying 'we will make you breed Punjabi children'," she said, with the aim of weakening the integrity of the opposing ethnic group.  Amnesty this year accused the pro-government Janjaweed militias in Sudan's Darfur region of using mass rape in order to punish, humiliate and control non-Arab groups.  Such attacks cause women and children to flee their homes, lead to fragmentation of communities and bring the risk of infection with HIV/Aids.  Sexual violence is also used to destabilise communities and sow terror, Amnesty says in its Lives Blown Apart report.  In Colombia, rival groups rape, mutilate and kill women and girls in order to impose "punitive codes of conduct on entire towns and villages", so strengthening their control.  Act with impunity  The strategic use of rape in war is not a new phenomenon but only recently has it begun to be documented, chiefly in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Colombia and Sudan, said Ms Sahgal.  And even after conflicts are resolved, few countries seem willing to tackle what is often seen as a crime against individual women rather than a strategy of war.  In many nations the collapse of the rule of law leaves them unable to deal with allegations of rape, while in others women feel too exposed to stigma to accuse their attackers.  International courts have tackled some cases in Bosnia, where Muslim women were forced into sexual slavery in the town of Foca in the 1990s, and in Rwanda, but the vast majority of perpetrators act with impunity.   Women's lives and their bodies have been the unacknowledged casualties of war for too long Amnesty's Lives Blown Apart report Representatives of the 200,000 "comfort women" forcibly drafted into military sexual slavery by Japan from 1928 until the end of World War II are still fighting for restitution.  Far from colluding, women from Korea, China, Taiwan, the Philippines, Malaysia and East Timor were "severely coerced" into prostitution, says Ms Sahgal.  And whether a woman is raped at gunpoint or trafficked into sexual slavery by an occupying force, the sexual abuse will shape not just her own but her community's future for years to come.  "Survivors face emotional torment, psychological damage, physical injuries, disease, social ostracism and many other consequences that can devastate their lives," says Amnesty.  "Women's lives and their bodies have been the unacknowledged casualties of war for too long."  
0 Hamdi voices innocence, joy about reunion Man held as 'enemy combatant' now back in Saudi Arabia Thursday, October 14, 2004 Posted: 2139 GMT (0539 HKT)   story.hamdi.jpg Hamdi said his new freedom "feels great."   more videoVIDEO Former U.S. detainee Yaser Hamdi breaks his silence in a CNN exclusive interview. premium contentPLAY VIDEO YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Saudi Arabia  Yaser Hamdi  Afghanistan  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? JUBAIL, Saudi Arabia (CNN) -- Saudi citizen Yaser Hamdi, recently released by the United States after being held as an enemy combatant, proclaimed his innocence and said he was happy to be with his family again during an exclusive interview with CNN.  "It feels great -- I can't really describe my feelings -- especially after meeting with my parents, the family, after more than three years being away from them," he said Wednesday from his home in the port city of Jubail.  Hamdi, a 24-year-old born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where his father had been a petroleum engineer, returned to Saudi Arabia Monday aboard a U.S. military jet from the naval brig in Charleston, South Carolina.  Hamdi had been detained since his capture by the U.S.-allied Northern Alliance in Afghanistan in December 2001 when he became the central figure in a landmark terrorism case before the Supreme Court earlier this year which dealt a setback to the Bush administration's legal approach to the war on terror.  Under the terms of his release, he was to renounce his U.S. citizenship and never travel to Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel, Pakistan, Syria, the West Bank or Gaza. He is also required to report any intent to travel outside Saudi Arabia for the next 15 years. If accused of any wrongdoing, Hamdi is to be subject to Saudi law.  Sporting a long beard and wearing Saudi traditional dress, Hamdi told CNN he understands the feelings in the United States following the September 11, 2001, attacks, but he said it should have taken a lot less time for him to be freed.  "[I] was hoping it [my case] would reach the Supreme Court ... faster and they will look at my case because I believe that I was innocent and I was locked down for the wrong reason."  Hamdi was captured in Afghanistan in December 2001, turned over to U.S. forces by the Northern Alliance and transferred to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a month later. Once there, officials determined he was a U.S. citizen and took him to the Navy brig in Norfolk, Virginia, in April. He was transferred to Charleston in August 2003.  Facing no criminal charges in the United States, Hamdi was barred from seeing an attorney until after two years in captivity and kept in solitary confinement.  "I didn't know what was going on -- really I didn't know anything. I was just in a big question mark, and I didn't know any answers to any questions," said Hamdi.  Hamdi's attorney, Frank Dunham, the federal public defender for eastern Virginia, challenged his client's detention as unlawful, taking the case to the Supreme Court.  The U.S. government maintains Hamdi was armed with a Kalashnikov assault rifle and traveling with a military unit of the Taliban, the deposed regime that gave al Qaeda safe harbor in Afghanistan, when he was captured.  The Bush administration designated Hamdi as an "enemy combatant" who was such a "grave threat to national security" that he could not be afforded the rights normally granted criminal defendants. Government officials argued his confinement was necessary to obtain all possible intelligence during wartime, including information about the enemy to help prevent possible attacks.  Dunham maintained that Hamdi was "a civilian unaffiliated with any military force" who tried unsuccessfully to leave Afghanistan within days of the September 11 attacks and that he "never engaged in, nor did he intend to engage in, an armed conflict against the United States in Afghanistan or anywhere else."  In the Wednesday interview, Hamdi gave no details of what he was doing in Afghanistan at the time of his capture.  Supreme Court decided case The Supreme Court affirmed the right of the president to detain citizens as "enemy combatants" during a military conflict but held that such prisoners could challenge the merits of their captivity before a neutral fact-finder.  The majority opinion said war was not "a blank check" for the executive branch and that "an unchecked system of detention carries the potential to become a means for oppression and abuse of others who do not present that sort of threat."  The agreement to release Hamdi, negotiated over the last four months, precluded any such hearing.  Hamdi was supposed to be released by September 30, but the departure was delayed while U.S. and Saudi officials discussed the agreement.  Dunham said Hamdi had no problem surrendering his American citizenship.  "When you've been in solitary confinement for three years and somebody puts a piece of paper in front of you that says you can get out of jail free if you sign it, you don't really worry too much about the rest of the fine print," he said.  Hamdi was born in Louisiana, but his family moved back to Saudi Arabia when he was a child.  Others challenging detentions Attorneys for two other enemy combatants -- so-called "dirty bomber" Jose Padilla and Qatari national Ali Saleh al-Marri -- are currently challenging their detentions in a South Carolina federal court. Both are being held in the Charleston brig.  Hamdi pleaded for faster and better attention to the cases of those in similar situations.  "My message to the American people is to take the situation of the other detainees in other confinements more seriously, and to release the people that have no charges against them," he said.  He would not give specifics on his treatment during his time in U.S. custody, although he did not give any impression he was abused. Hamdi did allude to solitary confinement when he said prayer helped him during long days alone.  "It's something that I really can't describe at all," he said, when asked how it felt to be free. "Just to be let down and to be given freedom -- you really know what the meaning of freedom [is]."  CNN's Phil Hirschkorn and Nic Robertson contributed to this report. 
0 Powell: We were instructed to talk to Woodward President's campaign site calls book 'suggested reading' Tuesday, April 20, 2004 Posted: 2141 GMT (0541 HKT)   story.woodward.lkl.jpg Author Bob Woodward, on "Larry King Live," said President Bush is "the one who thought this story should be told."  Story Tools  ON CNN TV  Tune in at 9 p.m. Friday to see more of King's interview with journalist Bob Woodward. THE MORNING GRIND  Weekdays: CNN.com's exclusive look at the political fray more videoVIDEO CNN's Bill Schneider on John Kerry's Iraq plan. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Carlos Watson on Bob Woodward's "Plan of Attack." premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Kelly Wallace on Bush and Saudi oil. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED Congress focuses on Iraq policy White House, Saudis deny oil deal Interactive: Details from polling results Special Report:  Time 100 • Bush urges Patriot Act renewal • Support grows for troop increase • Poll: Bush ahead of Kerry • Honduras to join Spain in pullout • Woodward: Tenet's 'slam dunk' SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Bob Woodward  George W. Bush  Colin Powell  Bandar Bin Sultan  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Secretary of State Colin Powell and other administration officials Monday disputed some points raised in journalist Bob Woodward's provocative new inside account of the march to war in Iraq -- a book that nevertheless appears to have earned the White House seal of approval.  In an interview Monday in which he disputed suggestions by Woodward that he was out of the loop and dragooned into supporting President Bush on the war, Powell confirmed that the White House had told administration officials to cooperate with Woodward's "Plan of Attack."  "We all talked to Woodward. It was part of our instructions from the White House," Powell said. "It was an opportunity to help him write a contemporary history of this period."  Unlike the hostile treatment accorded recent tell-all tomes from former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and counterterrorism adviser Richard Clark, Woodward's book received a generally positive reception at the White House. The president's campaign Web site even listed the book as "suggested reading," providing a direct link to order a copy from Amazon.com.  Debate continues over timing of war decision Bush was one of 75 people interviewed by Woodward, who reported that the president ordered up secret plans for an invasion of Iraq in November 2001 and made the decision to go to war on his own, without soliciting the opinions of his vice president or secretaries of defense or state.  "It is, in a sense, the story of his presidency. This is the decision he made, he made it all alone. There was no committee vote," Woodward told CNN's "Larry King Live" on Monday. "He's the one who thought this story should be told."  But just when Bush made the fateful decision to go to war is one part of the book that is being disputed by the White House. Woodward said Bush made up his mind that war would be necessary in early January 2003 and then began telling his top advisers.  Both national security adviser Condoleezza Rice and White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card have said that the final decision to launch military action did not come until March, after Powell went to the U.N. Security Council in early February to make the administration's case for military action.  Woodward said he agrees with Card that the decision to go to war was not absolutely final until it became irrevocable as the March 19 invasion approached. But he told King that the source for his assertion that the actual decision was made earlier was the president himself.  Woodward said Bush told him that when he met in the Oval Office with Powell on January 13, 2003, it was "not a meeting to have a discussion. This was a meeting to tell Colin Powell that a decision had been made and that the president wanted his support."  He also said that when Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld met on January 11 with Saudi ambassador Prince Bandar bin Sultan to go over war plans, they made it clear to Bandar that they planned to depose Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, with Cheney telling the prince that once the war started, Saddam would be "toast."  However, both Powell and Prince Bandar insisted Monday that they did not come away from their respective meetings with the impression that Bush had made a final decision to go to war.  Bandar, who joined Woodward on "Larry King Live," said Woodward accurately reported that both Cheney and Rumsfeld told him that if war came, Saddam would not survive. But the ambassador said both men "told me before the meeting that the president had not made a decision."  Earlier, Bandar told CNN's "Paula Zahn Now" that he found out about the decision to launch military action the night before the invasion began.  Powell also said that during his January 13 meeting with the president, Bush "did not convey to me" that he had made a final decision to invade Iraq.  "He sent me back to do my diplomatic work," Powell said.  Pentagon says war funds properly spent In another matter related to the book, the Pentagon Monday was forced to explain Woodward's charge that in the summer of 2002, Bush approved spending $700 million to prepare for war in Iraq -- money that was diverted from an appropriation for the war in Afghanistan -- without telling Congress.   story.vert.bandar.file.jpg Saudi ambassador Prince Bandar bin Sultan Woodward suggested the diversion might have been illegal. But after reviewing the expenditures Monday, Pentagon officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the money was properly spent on projects to support the global war on terrorism that were "not specific" to war planning.  The Pentagon carefully reviewed a request from the head of the U.S. Central Command, Gen. Tommy Franks, for $750 million in "improvements" he wanted as part of the contingency planning for possible war with Iraq, officials said.  A senior budget official said "nothing Iraq specific" was authorized and that $178 million in funds were reprogrammed to cover fuel, additional humanitarian rations and improvements to CentCom's forward operating headquarters in Qatar. Those expenditures were "fully consistent" with the requirements of the supplemental funds provided by Congress in 2001 and 2002, the official said.  The rest of projects in CentCom's request -- which actually cost about $800 million -- were not approved until after October 25, when Congress had voted to authorize the war, the official said.  While some Democrats in Congress called for a full accounting, White House Communications Director Dan Bartlett disputed Woodward's contention that the money might have been illegally diverted.  "The letter of the law was followed in this case, as we have in every case spending taxpayers' dollars," he told CNN's "Inside Politics."  White House spokesman Scott McClellan said earlier in the day that both the Pentagon and the Office of Management and Budget would review the expenditures, but he noted that "in emergency spending there is broad discretion in how those funds could be used in the war on terrorism. And Iraq is part of the war on terrorism."  McClellan also said that the White House was "confident" that members of Congress were "fully informed of all expenditures."  In his book, Woodward suggested that Powell was kept out of the loop in decision-making before the war and only reluctantly went along with a policy he strongly opposed.   story.vert.powell.jpg Powell on going to war: "My support was willing, and it was complete." But the secretary of state told reporters Monday that "when the president decided that we had to go down the road of military action, it was a road I knew was there all along, and I was as committed as anyone else to see the end of this [Iraqi] regime."  "My support was willing, and it was complete," Powell said, although he also conceded that he "will always plead guilty to being cautious about matters having to do with war and peace."  Powell also took issue with the impression left by Woodward's characterization of the meetings on January 11 between Cheney, Rumsfeld and Prince Bandar, during which they discussed war plans, and his own meeting with Bush two days later in which the president is quoted as telling Powell, "I really think I'm going to have to do this."  Powell said the idea that Bandar was given information that was not being shared with the secretary of state is incorrect.  "I was included in all of the military planning preparations. I was briefed on a regular basis," said Powell, a retired Army general and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "I was intimately familiar with the plan. I was aware that Prince Bandar was being briefed on the plan."  But Woodward insisted that while Powell may have indeed seen the war plans, Bandar learned of Bush's decision from Cheney and Rumsfeld before Powell learned about it from Bush.  "The issue is not the plan. The issue is the decision," Woodward told King, adding that Rice urged Bush to tell Powell quickly because of concerns the secretary might first hear the news from Bandar.  Powell says relationship with Cheney 'excellent' Powell also disputed Woodward's contention that he and Cheney were so estranged by their differences over the war that they barely speak, insisting that his relationship with the vice president is "excellent."  "When the vice president and I are alone, it's Colin and Dick," he said.  But Woodward insisted his characterization of the friction between the two men is correct.  "Powell is the diplomat. He is the reluctant warrior. He is the cautious person, and Cheney is much more hard-lined, believes that with someone like Saddam Hussein, you can't play patty-cake, diplomacy doesn't work," he said. 
0 Cohen criticizes 'wag the dog' characterization Former defense secretary testifies before 9/11 panel Wednesday, March 24, 2004 Posted: 0301 GMT (1101 HKT)   vert.cohen.commission.jpg Former Secretary of Defense William Cohen testifies Tuesday before the 9/11 commission.  Story Tools  ON CNN TV  Stay with CNN for ongoing coverage of the independent commission on the September 11, 2001, attacks. more videoVIDEO CNN's Bill Hemmer talks with Richard Clarke about his assertions that Bush ignored the al Qaeda threat. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Kelly Wallace on how John Kerry drew the attention of the president and FBI in the 1970s. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Judy Woodruff on the campaign travel perks enjoyed by a president. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED Gallery: Key testimony in the 9/11 investigation Gallery: 9/11 commission members CNN Access:  Clarke: 'White House is papering over facts' Documents reveal FBI surveillance of Kerry in early 1970s • W.H. denies Clarke charges • Clarke: Bush ignored warnings • How It Works:  Presidential perks • Bush defends Iraq invasion YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Sudan  Bill Clinton  Monica S. Lewinsky  Osama Bin Laden  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Former Defense Secretary William Cohen on Tuesday defended President Clinton's use of the military to protect national security interests, returning to a sharp GOP-led criticism of Clinton at a time when he was embroiled in the Monica Lewinsky scandal.  At that time, some GOP lawmakers used the phrase "wag the dog" to describe Clinton's military actions, saying he was using conflicts abroad to deflect attention from the domestic scandal. A movie of the same name came out in 1997, and the plot involves a presidential administration that launches a war as a political ploy.  Testifying before the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States, Cohen said the U.S. military was prepared to kill or capture al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden whenever there was "actionable intelligence."  But he also said trying to capture bin Laden and his associates was like "mercury on a mirror."  Clinton came under intense criticism in 1998 by the GOP after he launched an attack on suspected terrorist targets in Afghanistan and Sudan. Intelligence indicated bin Laden and his top associates were meeting at a training camp when U.S. missiles were fired at it, just weeks after al Qaeda terrorists bombed U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya.  The attack was launched on the same day Lewinsky, a former White House intern, wrapped up her testimony before a grand jury investigating whether Clinton lied under oath about their relationship or encouraged anyone else to do so.  "During that time when the attack was launched in Afghanistan and Sudan, there was a movie out called 'Wag the Dog,' " Cohen testified Tuesday. In the movie, an administration launched a fake war as a political ploy. "There were critics of the Clinton administration that attacked the president, saying this was an effort on his part to divert attention from his personal difficulties.  "I would like to say for the record under no circumstances did President Clinton ever call upon the military and use that military in order to serve a political purpose."  Cohen served as a Republican U.S. senator from Maine before Clinton appointed him to the defense post.  Cohen said the the military objective on August 20, 1998, was "to kill as many people in those camps as we could" and to "take out" a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan that was believed to have been used by terrorists.  "We went after as many as we could and as high as we could. We didn't know whether [bin Laden] would be there for sure. We hoped he would be there. He slipped away apparently."  A few months later, the accusations of Clinton's use of the military arose anew when the United States and Britain launched Operation Desert Fox, a four-day bombing campaign against Iraq. That operation came as House debated Clinton's impeachment.  Cohen testified he was called to the House on the day the operation began to defend Clinton against a "boiling" rage.  "I put my entire public career on the line to say that the president always acted specifically upon the recommendation of those of us who held the positions of responsibility to take military action," he said. "And at no time did he ever try to use it or manipulate it to serve his personal ends."  He added: "I think it's important for that to be clear because that 'wag the dog' cynicism that was so virulent [then], I'm afraid is coming back again."  In the wake of the twin embassy bombings, Cohen said Clinton gave the military the authority to kill bin Laden if the opportunity arose.  "Whenever there was 'actionable intelligence,' we were prepared to take action to destroy bin Laden or the targets," he said.  But he said he didn't think a large military action was realistic -- even after the October 2000 bombing of the USS Cole -- because Congress most likely wouldn't have supported it and neither would Pakistan, Tajikstan and other key nations in the region.  Commissioner Bob Kerrey, a former Democratic senator from Nebraska, blasted Cohen's responses.  "We had a round in our chamber and we didn't use it. That's how I see it," he said. "I don't buy it."  Cohen again reiterated he thought an invasion of Afghanistan in the fall of 2000 was "unrealistic."  "We can be faulted for that," Cohen said. "I just don't think it was feasible."  Kerrey then responded: "I'll just say for the record, better to have tried and failed than to have not tried at all." 
0 Muslim cleric convicted Urged followers to fight U.S. after September 11 attacks From Terry Frieden CNN Washington Bureau Wednesday, April 27, 2005 Posted: 0047 GMT (0847 HKT)     SPECIAL REPORT YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Taliban  Acts of terror  September 11 attacks  Washington  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- A prominent Washington-area Muslim cleric was convicted Tuesday of urging his followers, days after the attacks of September 11, 2001, to go to Afghanistan and help the Taliban fight U.S. military forces.  Ali al-Timimi, 41, was convicted on all 10 counts of an indictment brought in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Virginia.  U.S. Attorney Paul McNulty called the verdict a victory in the war on terrorism. In a written statement, he called al-Timimi "a kingpin of hate against America."  "He not only wanted Americans to die, he recruited others to his cause at a time when our country was mourning the loss of more than 3,000 people who were murdered in a heinous act of terrorism," McNulty said.  Al-Timimi's lawyer, Edward MacMahon, said he will appeal.  "We're obviously disappointed in the verdict. We'll continue to fight," he said. "They basically tried the guy for 9/11. He had nothing to do with that."  The jury had deliberated for a week after a trial that centered on al-Timimi's conversations at a meeting with young Muslim men on September 16, 2001.  Three of the followers traveled to Pakistan and received military training but never went into Afghanistan.  Some of al-Timimi's followers were charged separately and convicted earlier as members of a "Virginia jihad" organization.  Government prosecutors said al-Timimi had urged the men to defend the Taliban regime as part of a global war against the United States and the West.  Defense attorneys acknowledged al-Timimi had spoken out against the U.S. government and expressed support for the September 11 attacks.  They insisted, however, that he was free to express his controversial views and had only suggested the men leave the United States for their own protection  The Islamic scholar remains free on $75,000 bail pending sentencing, which Judge Leonie Brinkema has scheduled for July 13.  Possible sentences for the charges on which he was convicted range from 30 years to life in prison.  MacMahon said that unless some of the counts are dismissed on appeal, al-Timimi is likely to end up with a life sentence. 
0 Bin Laden's brother-in-law speaks Former confidant details life with terrorist leader From Nic Robertson and Henry Schuster CNN  Thursday, November 25, 2004 Posted: 0111 GMT (0911 HKT)   story.obl.bro.inlaw.jpg Bin Laden's brother-in-law, Jamal Khalifa, runs a fish restaurant outside the Saudi Arabian port city of Jeddah.   more videoVIDEO CNN Exclusive: Osama bin Laden's brother-in-law talks to CNN. premium contentPLAY VIDEO SPECIAL REPORT YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Jihad  Osama Bin Laden  September 11 attacks  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? JEDDAH, Saudi Arabia (CNN) -- Osama bin Laden's brother-in-law, and former best friend, says he's not surprised the terrorist leader has been difficult to capture.  "Who is going to capture him and where?" Jamal Khalifa said.  Khalifa spoke to CNN in an exclusive interview about bin Laden and their past, which he said took the two men from university to Soviet-occupied Afghanistan before they parted company.  "For 10 years, the Russians did not capture even one leader of the Afghan mujahedeen with the full forces everywhere. So I think it is a little bit difficult," he said.  These days, Khalifa runs a fish restaurant just outside the Saudi Arabian port city of Jeddah.  "Ten years we are together," said Khalifa. "When we were in the university and after that. Always we are together. We live in one house."  Bin Laden and Khalifa met at Jeddah's King Abdulaziz University in the late 1970s and became close friends, nearly inseparable, Khalifa said.  They also shared a teacher, Abdullah Azzam, a Palestinian cleric who later joined bin Laden as founders of al Qaeda. Azzam's teachings helped influence bin Laden and Khalifa to go to Afghanistan and join the jihad against the Soviet forces that had invaded that country in 1979.  It was a sign of bin Laden's respect and affection for Khalifa that he arranged for Khalifa to marry his sister. But Khalifa thought a degree of caution might be in order, since they were headed into a war zone.  "He is the one who suggested ... I marry his sister," Khalifa said. "I told him, 'Osama, we are going to die and you are talking about marriage. So let's go first and if I come alive, we will do it.' So, I came alive."  Khalifa said he spent most of his time in Pakistan, setting up an Islamic relief charity, building schools and mosques for refugees displaced by the war in neighboring Afghanistan.  At the same time, bin Laden was becoming a leader of Arabs who came to Pakistan and Afghanistan. He was able to use some of his family fortune and contacts to raise money for the jihad, and he led men into combat.  Khalifa said that he was troubled at the time that bin Laden was creating his own fighting force from the men, who were known as the Afghan Arabs. "I saw him starting to group the Arabs in one place and start to let them go and fight by themselves."  Khalifa said he didn't realize that he was witnessing the beginnings of al Qaeda. But he said that what he saw he didn't like. He had a visit from three men, including Abu Ubaidah and Abu Hafs, who later became al Qaeda's first two military commanders.  They asked him a series of questions. Only later, he said, did he understand he was being screened about becoming a member of al Qaeda. This was in the late 1980s.  'Osama, you are doing something wrong' "I am the first one who stood up in front of Osama and told him, 'Osama, you are doing something wrong. You are going to the wrong direction,'" said Khalifa, who said he did not approve of the worldwide jihad that bin Laden and his advisers were planning.  Sheik Azzam, their mentor, was murdered under still-mysterious circumstances shortly afterward, and bin Laden became the uncontested leader of al Qaeda.  "He is a wealthy man, he has very good connections, and many people really love Osama," Khalifa said.  He said he parted company with bin Laden in the late 1980s, but they remained in touch. He last saw him in early 1992 during a family visit to Sudan.  The bin Laden Khalifa saw on video most recently aired on Arabic-language news channels looks like a man who has aged a great deal, he said.  On that tape, bin Laden once again took responsibility for the attacks of September 11, 2001. Khalifa believes that to be the case, but he says his brother-in-law was the leader of the attacks, but not the organizer.  "He cannot organize anything. I am the one who is leading. I am the one who is leading him in the prayer. I am the one who is leading if we go for outing, for picnic, for riding horses," Khalifa said with a laugh.  Khalifa has become more outspoken in his criticism of bin Laden. Last year, after a wave of terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia, he published an open letter to bin Laden in a Saudi paper, asking him to renounce the terrorism being committed in his name.  "Please come out, tell those people to stop," Khalifa wrote in the letter. "You are the one who can tell that, and you are the one who can stop it."  He never got a response from the man who was once his best friend. But there have been more attacks.  Khalifa has been the target of an extraordinary amount of scrutiny because of his background.  In the Philippines, where he went from Afghanistan, officials charged in a 1994 report that he was using businesses and prominent Islamic charities as fronts to funnel money to terrorists. Much of the investigation was done after Khalifa had left the country.  No charges were filed, Col. Boogie Mendoza of the Philippine National Police, said, because at the time the Philippines had no anti-terrorism laws. Currently, Khalifa does not face any charges in the Philippines. In fact, Mendoza said, if Khalifa returned to Manila, he would likely be put under surveillance but not be arrested.  Khalifa next traveled to San Francisco, California. He was arrested there by the U.S. government after it learned he was wanted in Jordan, where he had been convicted in absentia on a charge of plotting to overthrow the government. After being deported to Jordan, he was retried and acquitted.  Although Khalifa is named as a defendant in a multibillion-dollar lawsuit brought by the families of 9/11 victims, he contends there is no evidence to link him to the attacks.  On September 11, Khalifa was on a business trip in Southeast Asia. After he returned to Saudi Arabia, he was jailed for several months. He said he still doesn't know why he was arrested.  "They came and said, 'You are clear and you can go now.' That's it. So I don't know what is going on," he said.  Nawaf Obaid, a national security consultant for the Saudi government, said officials there now believe Khalifa "does not pose any security threat to any government and that he has broken all ties that have linked him to his charitable groups when he was operating out of the Philippines." 
0 Newsweek backs off Quran desecration story Account blamed for violent riots in Afghanistan Monday, May 16, 2005 Posted: 0501 GMT (1301 HKT)   story.sunday.protest.jpg Protesters burn a U.S. flag Sunday in Peshawar, Pakistan.   more videoVIDEO Newsweek backs off a story blamed for unrest in Muslim countries. premium contentPLAY VIDEO Anti-American protests erupt in Afghanistan. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED • Gallery: Protests in Afghanistan • Clerics threaten holy war • Anti-U.S. protests leave 3 dead • U.S.: No signs of Quran abuse YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Afghanistan  United States  Kabul  Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba)  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Newsweek magazine backed away Sunday from a report that U.S. interrogators desecrated copies of the Quran while questioning prisoners at the Guantanamo Bay naval base -- an account blamed for sparking violent riots in Afghanistan and elsewhere.  At least 15 people were killed and dozens injured last week when thousands of demonstrators marched in Afghanistan and other parts of the Muslim world, officials and eyewitnesses said.  "We regret that we got any part of our story wrong, and extend our sympathies to victims of the violence and to the U.S. soldiers caught in its midst," Newsweek Editor Mark Whitaker wrote in the magazine's May 23 issue, out Sunday.  In an article assessing its coverage, the magazine wrote, "How did Newsweek get its facts wrong? And how did the story feed into serious international unrest?"  The Pentagon said last week it was unable to corroborate any case in which interrogators at the U.S. Naval Station in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, defiled the Muslim holy book, as Newsweek reported in its May 9 issue.  "Top administration officials have promised to continue looking into the charges, and so will we," Whitaker said.  Pentagon spokesman Larry DiRita blamed Newsweek's report for the violent protests that broke out in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, Pakistan and other Muslim countries.  "People are dying. They are burning American flags. Our forces are in danger," he told CNN.  Newsweek said anger over the story spread after it was cited at a May 6 press conference in Islamabad, Pakistan, by Imran Khan, a Pakistani cricket legend and a critic of Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf.  In the story, the magazine cited sources as saying investigators looking into abuses at the military prison found interrogators "had placed Qurans on toilets, and in at least one case flushed a holy book down the toilet."  "Desecrating the Quran is a death-penalty offense" in Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan, said Peter Bergen, a CNN terrorism analyst.  "There is clearly a lot of anti-American sentiment in Pakistan, less so in Afghanistan, but I think that this will feed into it," Bergen said.  Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, Dan Klaidman, said the apparent error was "terribly unfortunate," and he offered the magazine's sympathies to the victims.  But he said "different forces" were at work that helped spark the riots.  "It's clear that people seized on the Newsweek report to advance their own agendas, and that that was part of it," he said.  "But I also think that there's an enormous amount of pent-up and not-so-pent-up anti-American rage and sentiment in that region."  "There are a lot of people who think that our war on terror and our war in Iraq is a much wider war against Islam," he said.  At a Pentagon press conference Thursday, Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, cited U.S. commanders as saying the protests in Jalalabad, at least, were more about local politics than anti-American sentiment stirred by the Newsweek report.  The story's origins Newsweek said Michael Isikoff, who reported the item with John Barry, became interested in the story after FBI e-mails that revealed an uglier side of life in Guantanamo were released late last year.  "Isikoff knew that military investigators at Southern Command [which runs the Guantanamo prison] were looking into the allegations," the article said.  "So he called a longtime reliable source, a senior U.S. government official who was knowledgeable about the matter.  "The source told Isikoff that the [investigators'] report would include new details that were not in the FBI e-mails, including mention of flushing the Quran down a toilet."  Whitaker wrote that before publishing the account the magazine approached two Pentagon officials for comment. One declined and the other challenged a different aspect of the report, Whitaker wrote.  Myers said at the Pentagon briefing Thursday the military was looking into the allegations.  He said investigators had so far been unable to confirm a "toilet incident, except for one case, a log entry, which they still have to confirm, where a detainee was reported by a guard to be ripping pages out of a Quran and putting [them] in the toilet to stop it up as a protest. But not where the U.S. did it."  On Friday, Newsweek said, DiRita phoned the magazine and said that investigators found no incidents involving Quran desecration.  A day later, Isikoff reached his source again, who said that although he remembered reading investigative reports about desecration of the Quran, including a toilet incident, "he could no longer be sure that these concerns had surfaced in the [Southern Command] report."  DiRita "exploded" when Newsweek informed him that one of the original sources behind the report had partially backed off the story, the magazine said.  "People are dead because of what this son of a bitch said," DiRita told Newsweek, according to the magazine's report. "How could he be credible now?"  DiRita confirmed the quote to CNN.  He said investigators have found nothing to support allegations that U.S. troops had desecrated copies of the Quran, but turned up one case he said has now led to stricter procedures at the prison camp.  In that case, a Quran fell to the floor during a routine search, he said. The book was encased in surgical mask, which prisoners at the facility are given to protect the book.  Camp commanders have since established stronger procedures when searching near a Quran, DiRita said -- including a rule that allows only Muslim troops, interrogators or chaplains to touch a copy.  But Newsweek said Isikoff has uncovered more allegations of Quran desecration.  One, from an attorney representing some of the detainees, provided some declassified notes indicating 23 detainees had tried to commit suicide in August 2003 when a guard dropped a Quran and stomped on it. (Full story)  Isikoff found two other references to Qurans being tossed into toilets or latrines, the magazine reported.  U.S. military officials said such claims are standard terrorist tactics.  "If you read the al Qaeda training manual, they are trained to make allegations against the infidels," Army Col. Brad Blackner told Newsweek. 
1 Ex-Bush aide: Iraq war planning began after 9/11 This despite doubt that Saddam was responsible, he says By Corbett B. Daly Thursday, May 6, 2004 Posted: 1553 GMT (2353 HKT)    What's this?  Contextual Link #1 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectateur nonummy lorenzino. Interdum volgus videt, est ubi peccat... www.contextual_1.com  Contextual Link #2 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectateur nonummy lorenzino. Interdum volgus videt, est ubi peccat... www.contextual_2.com  Contextual Link #3 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectateur nonummy lorenzino. Interdum volgus videt, est ubi peccat... www.contextual_3.com  Contextual Link #4 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectateur nonummy lorenzino. Interdum volgus videt, est ubi peccat... www.contextual_4.com    RELATED • O'Neill: Bush planned Iraq invasion before 9/11 YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Iraq  White House  September 11 attacks  Donald H. Rumsfeld  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? (CBS MarketWatch) -- A second former Bush administration official is set to accuse top presidential aides, including Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, of planning retaliatory strikes on Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, despite briefings from intelligence officials explaining that Iraq likely wasn't responsible.  The accusation from Richard Clarke, a counterterrorism official at the White House until February 2003, will come first in an interview on CBS News' "60 Minutes" set to be broadcast Sunday, the network said.  Former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill made similar accusations on "60 Minutes" in January.  Although O'Neill said the Bush administration began planning an Iraqi invasion just after taking office, Clarke said Bush's top aides immediately sought to use the terrorist attacks to levy a war against Iraq even though it appeared that al Qaeda, not Saddam, was responsible.  "They were talking about Iraq on 9/11. They were talking about it on 9/12," Clarke said in the CBS interview that was conducted as part of the promotion for his book.  "Against All Enemies: Inside the White House's War on Terror -- What Really Happened" is scheduled for release Monday by Simon & Schuster's Free Press. Simon & Schuster is owned by CBS parent Viacom.  Clarke and O'Neill both say Bush was determined to oust the Iraqi leader and used the terrorist attacks as an excuse to remove him from power.  O'Neill, who was fired from his job as Treasury secretary, said in a book about his time in Washington that Bush was fixated on Iraq from the first days of his administration.  Clarke, who headed a cyber-security office at the White House until the office was transferred to the newly created Homeland Security Department in February 2003, told CBS that Rumsfeld suggested retaliating against Iraq immediately after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.  "Rumsfeld was saying we needed to bomb Iraq ... We all said, 'but no, no, al-Qaeda is in Afghanistan,'" Clarke said in the interview. "And Rumsfeld said, 'There aren't any good targets in Afghanistan, and there are lots of good targets in Iraq.' I said, 'Well, there are lots of good targets in lots of places, but Iraq had nothing to do with [the September 11 attacks].'"  After O'Neill's book was published, Rumsfeld said the idea that Bush "came into office with a predisposition to invade Iraq, I think, is a total misunderstanding of the situation."  Bush administration officials have noted that U.S. policy dating from the Clinton administration was to seek "regime change" in Iraq, though it focused on funding and training Iraqi opposition groups rather than military force.  It was evident before September 11, 2001, that Iraq was a concern for the Bush administration.  In July 2001, national security adviser Condoleezza Rice told CNN that Saddam "is on the radar screen for the administration," and senior officials met at the White House two days later to discuss Iraq.  During the same time, Iraq began dispersing aircraft and air-defense capabilities in preparation for more aggressive U.S. airstrikes to enforce the "no-fly" zones over northern and southern Iraq.  A senior administration official told CNN that early Bush administration discussions regarding Iraq reviewed existing policies and plans.  Officials were particularly concerned with enforcement of the "no-fly" zones, where Iraqi air defense forces had been taking potshots at U.S. and British warplanes since late 1998. Iraq considered the areas, set up to protect anti-Saddam elements in northern and southern Iraq, as violations of its sovereignty.  Clarke is scheduled to testify Tuesday before a federal panel reviewing the attacks.  Corbett B. Daly covers the White House and the Treasury Department for CBS MarketWatch in Washington.   
1 Paul Wolfowitz: Godfather of the Iraq war By MARK THOMPSON Monday, December 29, 2003 Posted: 1914 GMT ( 3:14 AM HKT)  Story Tools MORE FROM TIME • Secretary of war • Bring back the draft? • Godfather of the Iraq war • A deal with Libya As tag teams go, Donald Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul Wolfowitz, could not be more unlikely. Rumsfeld is a Cook County, Ill., politician, while Wolfowitz would be more at home at the University of Chicago, where he earned his doctorate. That makes them the most interesting one-two combination this side of Bush-Cheney.  If Rumsfeld is the face, mouth and strong right arm of the war in Iraq, Wolfowitz—the intellectual godfather of the war—is its heart and soul. Whereas Rumsfeld talks about Iraq like a technician, Wolfowitz sounds more like a prophet. Says a close associate of the deputy's: "Paul asks himself every day how he can limit suffering by toppling another dictator or by helping people to govern themselves."  Rumsfeld offered Wolfowitz his current post with an invitation to serve as his intellectual alter ego, a senior aide says. Their offices are a short walk apart along the Pentagon's E-Ring. Wolfowitz frequently slips down a back hallway, peers through a peephole into his boss's suite and, if Rumsfeld is alone, walks right in.  "He's got great power of concentration," says Wolfowitz, "so you can open the door—it doesn't disturb him—until he pauses, and I ask, ÔCan you take a minute?'" They talk half a dozen times a day, on matters small and large. Rumsfeld likes to chaff his deputy. "If there's a grammatical error in something I've written," Wolfowitz says, "he loves to correct it and say, ÔAnd he has a Ph.D.!'"  Most Pentagons feature a top guy who's a big thinker and a No. 2 who's the day-to-day manager. Rummy and Wolfie (as the President calls them) have it reversed: Wolfowitz is more ideological than Rumsfeld, which has suited both men for different reasons. Wolfowitz often ventured way ahead of the rest of the Administration on foreign policy matters over the past two years, and Rumsfeld frequently let him go.  That allowed Wolfowitz to push the whole Bush team to the right, which also let Rumsfeld align himself with that crowd when it served his purpose to do so. "Rumsfeld's a big-enough maestro to understand that Wolfowitz was the leading edge and that someone had to do it," a Pentagon associate says.  "Are there times when it made him uncomfortable? Absolutely. Are there times when he had to crank it back? Yes. But did it work for him? Clearly." Wolfowitz has spent much of his career as a fierce defender of democracy. In Ronald Reagan's State Department, he pushed autocrats in Indonesia, the Philippines and South Korea toward reform.  In George H.W. Bush's Administration, he was the Pentagon's No. 3 civilian and the first to argue that letting Saddam Hussein remain in power was a mistake. In the current Administration, he was the first to push Bush to topple Saddam in the wake of 9/11—and he did so just four days after the tragedy. Over coffee at Camp David, Wolfowitz privately broached the idea with Bush, who pulled him aside during a break and urged him to bring it up at a later meeting.  The onetime diplomat seems to lack the diplomatic gene. Wolfowitz was seen as clumsy and heavy-handed after the release on a U.S. government website of his memo barring nations that didn't participate in the invasion from winning U.S. contracts to rebuild Iraq—at the same time the U.S. was trying to persuade those nations to forgive Iraq's debt. Says a Pentagon official: "We ended up looking petty and petulant."  The Rummy and Wolfie show may soon go off the air. It is widely believed in national-security circles that Wolfowitz may leave the Administration sometime in 2004. He has become too controversial for Bush to promote to Defense Secretary; Wolfowitz believed that U.S. troops in Iraq would be greeted with rose petals. He remains unbowed about the postwar effort.  "I'd like to know, among those people who say we should have had better plans, just which plan they had in mind that would have prevented the murderers and torturers that raped and abused that country for 35 years from continuing to fight this destructive war until they're defeated. The bottom line is," he says, "these are tough, ugly bastards." 
1 Japan to send troops to Iraq Tuesday, December 9, 2003 Posted: 0913 GMT ( 5:13 PM HKT)  Around 100 protesters demonstrated outside Koizumi's residence on Tuesday. Around 100 protesters demonstrated outside Koizumi's residence on Tuesday. Story Tools RELATED • Japan: Diplomats shot in vehicles SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Japan  Iraq  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? TOKYO, Japan (CNN) -- Japan has approved a plan to deploy non-combat troops to Iraq, paving the way for its largest overseas military mission since the end of World War II.  The move comes after an extraordinary cabinet meeting on Tuesday and follows intense debate on the matter, stirred up by the killing of two Japanese diplomats in Iraq late last month.  "We are not going to war," Koizumi said, after the decision. "The situation in Iraq is severe. We know it is not necessarily safe. But our Self-Defense Forces must still fulfill this mission."  The troop plan is a controversial one for Japan with many critics saying such a dispatch violates the nation's pacifist constitution. Opinion polls showed most Japanese were against the Iraq war and most are now opposed to the deployment of troops.  Article nine of the constitution forbids Japan's military -- the Self-Defense Forces -- from waging war overseas. Opponents of the troop dispatch are concerned that owing to the security situation in Iraq, Japanese forces may be drawn into combat.  No Japanese soldier has fired a shot in combat or been killed in an overseas mission since World War II despite roles in international peacekeeping missions, such as in East Timor, which were made possible by a 1992 law.  But Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi -- who had previously committed to U.S. President George W. Bush to send Japanese troops -- said it would be wrong for his nation to stand by and do nothing.  "America has made many sacrifices to create a viable democracy in Iraq," he said. "Japan must be a trustworthy ally for the United States."  The plan allows for the troops to be sent during a one-year period starting December 15 but no specific date for the dispatch or the size of the deployment was provided.   Reports said the ground troops will provide humanitarian assistance and help the coalition carry out operations. Reports said the ground troops will provide humanitarian assistance and help the coalition carry out operations. Media reports said initially 500 to 700 ground troops would be sent, preceded by air and naval forces as well as equipment and supplies.  The troops will provide humanitarian assistance and help coalition forces carry out operations safely, Japan's Nihon Keizai newspaper reported Tuesday. They are expected to provide water, offer medical services and rebuild schools, the daily added.  Seven or eight air force planes, three navy transport vessels and three destroyers are expected to be sent to Iraq, the reports said.  Additionally, the troops would be equipped with the heaviest armaments yet taken on a Japanese overseas mission, including anti-tank rocket launchers and recoilless guns to protect against suicide bombers in Iraq, according to the reports.  Though the constitution allows for Japan only to have forces for self-defense, parliament passed and enacted a law in July that allowed troops to be sent to help rebuild Iraq. The law, however, specifies that military personnel be sent only to "non-combat" zones.  Plans to send more than 1,000 troops were delayed last month after a bomb attack on an Italian military police headquarters in Iraq that killed 19 Italians and 14 locals.  The killing of the two diplomats, slain by gunmen near Tikrit last month, and the rise in attacks on non-U.S. personnel in Iraq have added to fears Japanese troops may be targeted there.  There are also worries closer to home, with many Japanese worried they may become terrorist attack targets after al Qaeda warned it would "strike at the heart of Tokyo" should Japan send troops to Iraq.  A recent opinion poll shows only 9 percent of Japanese support the government's plan to dispatch troops to the region.  
1 Soldiers put Iraq 'war trophies' on eBay By Matt Smith CNN Friday, March 19, 2004 Posted: 0417 GMT (1217 HKT)   story.cramer.portrait.jpg Brian Cramer in the palace where he found a copy of the Koran  Story Tools  more videoVIDEO CNN's Walter Rodgers reports on the inferno at a Baghdad hotel. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN security analyst discusses how the Baghdad bombing may affect the transition of power. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED On the scene:  Jane Arraf: 'Scene from hell' Interactive: Blast site in Karrada district of Baghdad • Gallery: Iraq bombings • Cheney: U.S. determination 'unshakable' SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Baghdad  Military  Saddam Hussein  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- A year after the U.S.-led invasion toppled Saddam Hussein's government in Iraq, items touted as having come from Saddam's palaces have turned up for sale on the auction Web site eBay.  The seller of one secondhand rug lists the previous owner of the roughly 6-by-9-foot piece of carpet as ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.  Customers can also bid on silverware embossed with the Iraqi army's crest and a copy of the Koran, the Muslim holy book, which is purported to be from a Baghdad compound.  A spokesman for U.S. Central Command told CNN that U.S. troops should have been prohibited from bringing such items home from Iraq. But the men selling the items say they had no trouble bringing them back.  Spc. Adam Dearinger, who is asking a minimum of $850 for the rug, is among those who brought home war trophies with no problems.  "We didn't think we were going to be able to get them home, but they said we could take 10 items," Dearinger said.  He and other members of his unit at first took rugs from one of Saddam's many palaces to soften their quarters in a hangar at Baghdad International Airport, he said.  Dearinger, 21, was part of the 3rd Forward Support Battalion -- part of the Army's 3rd Infantry Division, which led the advance on the Iraqi capital from the west.  "We went through about 15 or 20 different palaces," he said. In one, "There were 15 rugs there, and every one of us grabbed one and we took them."  Another Iraq war veteran, Brian Cramer, is asking $150 for a Koran he said he found in one Baghdad compound.  Cramer's unit, the 519th Military Police Battalion, followed the 3rd Infantry Division into the Iraqi capital as Saddam's government collapsed.  "We got up there to Baghdad International Airport, and then we went around -- the guy told us it was sort of palace hunting. We were looking for a place to stay," he said.  "I went in there and there was this room that was all blown up," he added. "I found this Koran and I found, like, a prayer robe -- that's what the Iraqis told me it was."  Cramer, who now lives in Pennsylvania, said he found two copies of the book in a section of the palace hit by a precision-guided bomb during the three-week invasion. He said he is saving the other copy for his 5-month-old son.  Both Cramer and Dearinger said the items they're now selling were declared and cleared by U.S. Customs upon their return home.  "They didn't say anything bad about taking the rugs home, or artifacts. They considered them war trophies," Dearinger said.  But Cmdr. Dan Gage, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said soldiers are not allowed to bring back "war trophies" -- only legally purchased souvenirs.  "Would this fall under that? I don't know," Gage said.  Dearinger said decisions about what was a legitimate souvenir were left up to individual commanders. But Gage said the regulations covering war trophies don't appear to leave much to an officer's discretion.  "How strictly that's enforced, I really couldn't speak for these units," he said.  Cramer, 24, was sent home in August after he re-tore a previously injured knee ligament while on patrol in Baghdad. He left the Army in October and is now studying to be a civilian police officer.  He said Customs classified his copies of the Koran "as a piece of history."  Dearinger is still in the Army, stationed at Fort Stewart, Georgia. He's also offering silverware from an Iraqi palace for sale.  He said he brought home numerous items from the palaces, including crystal and a teapot with a woman's figure inlaid in colored glass -- "different little things I thought would be nice to take home to the wife." 
1 Iraq war 'spy memo case' collapses Wednesday, February 25, 2004 Posted: 1415 GMT (10:15 PM HKT)  Gun: Disclosure Gun: Disclosure "exposed serious illegality and wrongdoing" by U.S. Story Tools RELATED • U.N. envoy: U.S. spying well known YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Espionage and Intelligence  Great Britain  Iraq  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? LONDON, England -- Charges have been dropped against a British government translator accused of leaking a memo on an alleged U.S. "dirty tricks" campaign in the run-up to the Iraq war.  Katherine Gun, 29, walked free from the Old Bailey criminal court in central London on Wednesday after prosecutors said they would offer no evidence against her.  Gun was sacked from her job as a Mandarin Chinese language expert at Britain's Government Communications Headquarters listening station (GCHQ) in Cheltenham, western England, last June.  She was charged in November under the Official Secrets Act 1989 of disclosing security and intelligence information. This related to a request, allegedly from an American National Security Agency official to British counterparts, to tap the telephones of U.N. Security Council delegates.  Details of the leaked memo, reported to be written by Frank Koza, defense chief of staff (regional targets) on January 31, 2003, were later published by The Observer newspaper in Britain.  The request was allegedly made as Washington and London were attempting to obtain a U.N. Security Council resolution authorizing the Iraq war. Targets of the eavesdropping efforts were reported to be Angola, Cameroon, Chile, Bulgaria, Guinea and Pakistan.  Prime Minister Tony Blair's government refused to comment on the allegations, saying it never discusses intelligence matters.  Gun admitted she had leaked the memo. She said "any disclosures were justified because they exposed serious illegality and wrongdoing on the part of the U.S. government, who attempted to subvert our own security services."  She also defended the disclosures as an attempt to prevent the deaths of Iraqi civilians and British troops in a war.  Prosecutor Mark Ellison refused to give detailed reasons in court for the decision to drop charges against Gun, stating only there was "no longer sufficient evidence to support a realistic prospect of conviction."  But legal sources -- who had predicted the collapse of the case -- told Reuters the government was unwilling to have a sensitive trial in which the legality of the Iraq war would have come under question.  A lengthy trial would have had the potential to further embarrass the British and U.S. governments, still reeling from intelligence failures over Iraq and accusations of lies and bullying in trying to persuade the world to endorse military action against Saddam Hussein.  Earlier this month, Mexican officials asked the United States and Britain to respond to reports they also spied on the Mexican mission at the United Nations.  Gun, who was reported to have seen the top-secret e-mail by accident, said after her court appearance she was "delighted" by the decision to drop the charges but added she "would do it all again."  "I felt that this was an essential and important issue that needed to get out to the public," she told reporters. 
1 Kennedy: Iraq war based on politics Thursday, January 15, 2004 Posted: 1747 GMT ( 1:47 AM HKT)  U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy calls the invasion of Iraq U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy calls the invasion of Iraq "a war of choice." Story Tools more videoVIDEO CNN's Bill Hemmer talks with Sen. Ted Kennedy about the Bush administration. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Karl Penhaul on the capture of a top Baathist in Iraq. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Jamie McIntyre on a report by a U.S. Army War College professor. premium content PLAY VIDEO RELATED Today in Iraq: Top Baathist fugitive caught in Iraq • O'Neill: Bush Iraq planning YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Edward Kennedy  Iraq  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy, an elder statesman among liberal Democrats, slammed President Bush and his administration for going to war in Iraq based on political considerations.  In a speech Wednesday, Kennedy said the decision to invade Iraq was grounded in the "gross abuse of intelligence," an "arrogant disrespect for the United Nations" and the GOP's desire to seize control of both houses of Congress in 2002.  The senator from Massachusetts spoke to the Center for American Progress, a liberal advocacy group, at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington.  He was flanked by Brian and Alma Hart, whose son John was killed in Iraq, and Army Sgt. Peter Damon, who lost both arms serving in Iraq.  Kennedy called the invasion of Iraq "a war of choice, not of necessity" and laid out what he called a timeline of the "drumbeat to war" that he said began in the earliest days of the Bush presidency.  In support of his criticism, Kennedy cited recent revelations about Iraq policy by former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill in the Ron Suskind book "The Price of Loyalty" and in TV and magazine interviews.  "Former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill has now revealed what many of us have long suspected," Kennedy said.  "Despite protestations to the contrary, the president and his senior aides began the march to war in Iraq in the earliest days of the administration, long before the terrorists struck this nation on 9/11."  Bush officials have denied the administration had a predisposition to invade Iraq, saying the White House was continuing former President Clinton's policy of regime change.  The senator insisted the Bush administration built the case for war as a distraction from the failed search for Osama bin Laden and the failure to roust al Qaeda in the wake of the September 11, 2001, attacks.  In going to war, Kennedy said, the administration made the United States "a lesser and less respected land."  There was "no compelling reason for war," and "the war has not made America safer," Kennedy said, adding that there is no convincing evidence connecting Saddam Hussein's Iraq and September 11.  Kennedy said the administration continues to be guided by a "misguided and arrogant foreign policy" that makes the world more dangerous because it increases the threat of terrorism and erodes international of support for the United States.  He said Americans will see through the administration's failed polices and express their anger at the voting booth in November.  "The election cannot come too soon," he said.  Kennedy has been a consistent critic of the administration's policy toward Iraq. He was one of 23 senators who opposed the resolution authorizing Bush to go to war.  In a September interview, the senator called the war "a fraud" that had been cooked up in Texas.  Leading congressional Republicans denounced his remarks. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay of Texas said Kennedy went too far and called on Democrats to repudiate his comments. 
1 O'Neill: Bush planned Iraq invasion before 9/11 In new book, ex-Treasury secretary criticizes administration Wednesday, January 14, 2004 Posted: 0712 GMT ( 3:12 PM HKT)  Image Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill served nearly two years in Bush's Cabinet. Story Tools RELATED • U.S. economy chiefs quit • White House to economic advisers: Resign • Democrats broaden criticism of administration on Iraq YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Paul O'Neill  George W. Bush  Iraq  White House  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? (CNN) -- The Bush administration began planning to use U.S. troops to invade Iraq within days after the former Texas governor entered the White House three years ago, former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill told CBS News' 60 Minutes.  "From the very beginning, there was a conviction that Saddam Hussein was a bad person and that he needed to go," O'Neill told CBS, according to excerpts released Saturday by the network. "For me, the notion of pre-emption, that the U.S. has the unilateral right to do whatever we decide to do, is a really huge leap."  O'Neill, who served nearly two years in Bush's Cabinet, was asked to resign by the White House in December 2002 over differences he had with the president's tax cuts. O'Neill was the main source for "The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill," by former Wall Street Journal reporter Ron Suskind.  The CBS report is scheduled to be broadcast Sunday night; the book is to be released Tuesday by publisher Simon & Schuster.  Suskind said O'Neill and other White House insiders gave him documents showing that in early 2001 the administration was already considering the use of force to oust Saddam, as well as planning for the aftermath.  "There are memos," Suskind told the network. "One of them marked 'secret' says 'Plan for Post-Saddam Iraq.'"  Suskind cited a Pentagon document titled "Foreign Suitors For Iraqi Oilfield Contracts," which, he said, outlines areas of oil exploration. "It talks about contractors around the world from ... 30, 40 countries and which ones have what intentions on oil in Iraq."  In the book, O'Neill is quoted as saying he was surprised that no one in a National Security Council meeting asked why Iraq should be invaded.  "It was all about finding a way to do it. That was the tone of it. The president saying 'Go find me a way to do this,'" O'Neill said.  Suskind also described a White House meeting in which he said Bush seemed to waver about going forward with a second round of tax cuts.  "Haven't we already given money to rich people... Shouldn't we be giving money to the middle?" Suskind says Bush asked, according to what CBS called a "nearly verbatim" transcript of an economic team meeting Suskind said he obtained from someone at the meeting.  O'Neill also said in the book that President Bush "was like a blind man in a roomful of deaf people" during Cabinet meetings.  One-on-one meetings were no different, O'Neill told the network.  Describing his first such meeting with Bush, O'Neill said, "I went in with a long list of things to talk about and, I thought, to engage [him] on. ... I was surprised it turned out me talking and the president just listening. It was mostly a monologue."  White House spokesman Scott McClellan brushed off O'Neill's criticism.  "We appreciate his service, but we are not in the business of doing book reviews," he told reporters. "It appears that the world according to Mr. O'Neill is more about trying to justify his own opinion than looking at the reality of the results we are achieving on behalf of the American people. The president will continue to be forward-looking, focusing on building upon the results we are achieving to strengthen the economy and making the world a safer and better place."  A senior administration official, who asked not to be named, expressed bewilderment at O'Neill's comments on the alleged war plans.  "The treasury secretary is not in the position to have access to that kind of information, where he can make observations of that nature," the official said. "This is a head-scratcher."  Even before the interview is broadcast, the topic became grist for election-year politics.  Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, who is the early front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, issued a statement in response.  "I've always said the president had failed to make the case to go to war with Iraq," Dean said. "My Democratic opponents reached a different conclusion, and in the process, they failed to ask the difficult questions. Now, after the fact, we are learning new information about the true circumstances of the Bush administration's push for war, this time, by one of his former Cabinet secretaries.  "The country deserves to know -- and the president needs to answer -- why the American people were presented with misleading or manufactured intelligence as to why going to war with Iraq was necessary."  Democratic Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts also issued a statement. In 2002, Kerry voted to support a resolution giving Bush authority to wage war against Iraq if it didn't dismantle its presumed illegal weapons program.  "These are very serious charges. It would mean [Bush administration officials] were dead-set on going to war alone since almost the day they took office and deliberately lied to the American people, Congress, and the world," Kerry said. "It would mean that for purely ideological reasons they planned on putting American troops in a shooting gallery, occupying an Arab country almost alone. The White House needs to answer these charges truthfully because they threaten to shatter [its] already damaged credibility as never before." 
1 GCHQ translator cleared over leak Katharine Gun Katharine Gun said the e-mail asked for help bugging key states A GCHQ translator sacked for revealing a secret e-mail has been cleared of a charge under the Official Secrets Act. Katharine Gun, 29, from Cheltenham, claimed the e-mail was from US spies asking British officers to tap phones of nations voting on war against Iraq.  She walked free on Wednesday when the prosecution offered no evidence.  Ms Gun had always said she had acted in an effort to prevent the war, and outside court said: "I have no regrets and I would do it again."  The leaking of the e-mail to the Observer newspaper generated a row and saw Ms Gun's case become a cause celebre in the US, with civil rights activist Jesse Jackson and actor Sean Penn lending their support.  Human rights group Liberty, which supported Ms Gun throughout her trial, said it was possible the prosecution's decision followed political intervention.  There has been speculation the government was worried about the disclosure of secret documents during the trial, particularly the advice by Attorney General Lord Goldsmith about the legality of war.  Under the Official Secrets Act, the attorney general has the final decision on whether or not to prosecute.   This needed to get out, the public deserved to know what was going on at the time Katharine Gun Watch Katharine Gun's statement in full  GCHQ "whistle-blower" profiled But the attorney general's office told the BBC the decision to drop the charge had nothing to do with Lord Goldsmith's advice.  Ms Gun's legal team served documents on the government on Tuesday demanding to see any advice given to ministers about the legality of the war.  But BBC political correspondent Guto Harri said a government spokesperson insisted the decision to drop the case was taken before the demand for documents was made.  The same spokesperson suggested the case might have been dropped as Ms Gun planned to argue she leaked the e-mail to save lives from being lost in a war, something that could persuade a jury and would lead to the reputation of the Official Secrets Act being damaged.  Our correspondent said this suggested the government had made a political calculation that a random selection of a dozen jurors would be likely to be so instinctively anti-war than an acquittal would be likely.  'Baffled'  Ms Gun, who was sacked from GCHQ in June and charged on 13 November, thanked her family and friends for helping her through the case.  She told a news conference: "Obviously I'm not prone to leak secrets left, right and centre... but this needed to get out, the public deserved to know what was going on at the time.  "I was pretty horrified and I felt that the British intelligence services were being asked to do something that would undermine the whole UN democratic processes."  Ms Gun revealed she was strongly anti-war but said she had not been looking for a piece of information to leak and embarrass the government.  "I'm just baffled in the 21st century we as human beings are still dropping bombs on each other as a means to resolve issues."  The memo, from January last year, reportedly said the National Security Agency had begun a "surge" in eavesdropping on UN Security Council countries crucial to the vote on a second resolution for action in Iraq.  Officials from Angola, Cameroon, Chile, Bulgaria, Guinea and Pakistan all had their phones tapped in what the Observer described as a "dirty tricks" operation.  'Political charges'  BBC security correspondent Frank Gardner said managers within the intelligence service might now be thinking about talking to members of staff about their concerns to prevent future whistle-blowing.  Shami Chakrabarti, of Liberty, said the decision to charge Mrs Gun in the first place had been political.  "One wonders whether disclosure in this criminal trial might have been a little too embarrassing," she said.   HAVE YOUR SAY I admire Katharine Gun for what she did. Yousaf, London, UK  Send us your comments The Liberal Democrats' foreign affairs spokesman Sir Menzies Campbell said: "It is possible the attorney general's legal advice might have been published at last. This is a government retreat.''  Ms Gun pleaded not guilty on Wednesday, after which the prosecution announced it would not be going ahead with its case.  Mark Ellison, for the prosecution, said: "There is no longer sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction.  "It would not be appropriate to go into the reasons for this decision."  No explanation  The judge, the Recorder of London Michael Hyam, recorded a formal verdict of not guilty.  The defence inquired why it took until Wednesday for the case to be dropped, but the prosecution offered no explanation.  They also want to know why news of the charges being dropped was apparently leaked to the Guardian newspaper last week.  All that is needed for a successful prosecution under the Official Secrets Act is for the prosecution to demonstrate the accused is covered by it, which Ms Gun was, and they have revealed information covered by it, which she also admitted.  Her solicitor James Welch described the prosecution's excuse as "rather lame".  Former spy David Shayler, jailed for revealing secrets, said a blanket of secrecy was used to protect intelligence matters that did not affect national security.  "If the intelligence services are going to do things that are illegal they have to expect people to whistle-blow." 
1 Can religion be blamed for war? Mike Wooldridge  By Mike Wooldridge BBC World Affairs Correspondent  Are religion and religious differences to blame for war and conflict? Many war leaders have claimed to have God on their side, but should religion get the blame? A "War Audit" commissioned for the BBC programme "What the World Thinks of God" investigates the links between war and religion through the ages. It was carried out by researchers at the Department of Peace Studies at Bradford University. George Bush was in little doubt about how the US-led coalition would bring down Saddam Hussein.  At a prayer meeting, shortly before the invasion of Iraq, he said: "Behind all of life and all of history, there's a dedication and purpose, set by the hand of a just and faithful God."   President Bush Behind all of life and all of history, there's a dedication and purpose, set by the hand of a just and faithful God President Bush BBCi Religion and Ethics: Theory of the Just War War audit Read the full report (PDF file 374KB)  But God's help was being invoked in Baghdad, too. Saddam Hussein told Iraqis: "Fight as God ordered you to do."  So does that makes last year's Iraq conflict a religious war?  The authors of the War Audit suggest that it was arguably a war driven by religion.  But, as they point out, the Pope and the US Catholic bishops, the Archbishop of Canterbury and many theologians around the world argued that it fell well short of the rigorous criteria for a "just" war.  President Bush and Saddam Hussein were only the most recent of a long line of political leaders who have drawn on religion to help them in battle or to justify a military campaign.  But the War Audit set out to identify conflicts that were more closely linked to religious belief than to political causes - that could most properly be called religious wars.  And that, it concluded, means going back to the wars of Islamic expansion beginning in the 7th Century, the Crusades starting in the 11th Century and the Reformation wars beginning in the 16th Century.  Here the wars were fought primarily because of religious differences.  Most are much more complex.  To some extent, the nature of a war is in the eye of the beholder.  Political grievances   SELECTED EXTRACTS FROM RELIGIOUS TEXTS 'Then you must utterly destroy them; you shall make no covenant with them and show them no mercy' (Torah, Book of Deuteronomy 7:1-2) 'Thou shall not kill' (Torah, Book of Exodus 20:13) 'All who take the sword will perish by the sword' (New Testament, Matthew 5:43-44) 'Fight in the cause of God against those who fight you, but aggress not' (Koran 2:190) 'Whoever fights in the cause of God, then gets killed or attains victory, we will surely grant him a great recompense' (Koran 4:74) 'When all efforts to restore peace prove useless and no words avail, lawful is the flash of steel' (10th Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh) 'May your weapons be strong to drive away the attackers, may your arms be powerful enough to check the foes, let your army be glorious, not the evil-doer' (Hinduism's Rig Veda 1-39:2) Osama Bin Laden portrays the campaign being waged by his terror network as a religious duty.  But the authors of the War Audit say it is much more about his opposition to the political order in Arab countries and the presence of US forces in Muslim nations.  One of the most extraordinary armed campaigns I have witnessed was that of the Holy Spirit Movement in Uganda in the 1980s, the forerunner of the Lord's Resistance Army that remains locked in battle with the Ugandan army in northern Uganda today.  Alice Lakwena, the leader of the Holy Spirit Movement, claimed that God had commanded her to seize the Ugandan capital and I and other journalists found and interviewed her in a banana grove about 100 kilometres (60 miles) short of Kampala.  Superstition played a large part in the progress her ragtag band of followers had made.  They smeared themselves with a potion they were told would protect them against the army's bullets.  But this bizarre campaign has also fed on northern political grievances in Uganda.  And this is echoed down the ages.  Few truly religious wars   Why is religion a factor in war at all when all the main faiths have little time for violence and advocate peace? The War Audit says that although armed conflicts may take on religious overtones, their genesis invariably lies in factors such as ethnicity, identity, power struggles, resources, inequality and oppression - and one factor is often exacerbated by another.  It is often suggested that there has been a sharp rise in religiously motivated conflict.  But the authors of the War Audit say there have been very few genuinely religious wars in the past century.  Knight Templar A Knight Templar from the time of the Crusades The Israel-Arab wars from 1948 to the present day are often seen as wars over religion.  In fact, they say, they have been about nationalism, self-defence or the liberation of territory.  So why is religion a factor in war at all when all the main faiths have little time for violence and advocate peace?  Because, it is suggested, leaders use differences over faith as a way of sowing hatred and mobilising support for political wars.  As the American civil war leader Abraham Lincoln put it almost 150 years ago: "The will of God prevails.  "In great contests, each party claims to act in accordance with the will of God. Both may be, but one must be wrong.  "God cannot be for and against the same thing at the same time." 
1 Bush sets out 'mission for freedom' The Queen and President Bush at Buckingham Palace The Queen and President Bush at Buckingham Palace US President George Bush has mounted an impassioned defence of the invasion of Iraq and vowed to win the war on terror. During the first day of his historic state visit to London he said the US and the UK "share a mission" as defenders of freedom across the globe.  And he told the audience at London's Banqueting House that the danger of terrorists using weapons of mass destruction aided by dictators represented "the greatest threat of our age".  "The evil is in plain sight. The danger only increases with denial.  "Great responsibilities have fallen once again to the great democracies. We will face these threats with open eyes and we will defeat them."  The speech to foreign affairs experts came amid tight security for the president's visit.   Who will say that Iraq was better off when Saddam Hussein was strutting and killing or that the world was safer when he held power? President George W. Bush  Key points: Bush speech Later on Wednesday police made some arrests as protesters gathered in the Mall near Buckingham Palace.  In his speech, Mr Bush said a global response was needed to address such threats, along with a recognition that "in some cases the measured use of force is all that protect us from a chaotic world ruled by force".  Defending the war in Iraq, he said: "The dictator had been given many chances to account for his weapons programmes. Now the resolutions he defied have been enforced.  "Who will say that Iraq was better off when Saddam Hussein was strutting and killing, or that the world was safer when he held power?"  'Alliance of values'  Mr Bush said the UK and US shared "a mission in the world beyond the balance of power or the simple pursuit of interest".  "We seek the advance of freedom and the peace that freedom brings," he said.  "Together, our nations are standing and sacrificing for this high goal in a distant land at this very hour."  President Bush inspecting the guard The US president was given an official Royal welcome Mr Bush was earlier welcomed by the Queen at a ceremony full of pageantry at Buckingham Palace.  The president's visit comes amid unprecedented security due to anti-war protests and increased terror fears.  Despite the intense policing the visit began amid claims the Mirror newspaper had exposed a breach in security.  The claims have prompted a Buckingham Palace investigation and Home Secretary David Blunkett has made a statement to MPs about the incident.  The Mirror newspaper claimed one of its reporters got a job as a footman in the palace using fake references and was set to serve the president's staff breakfast.  A Buckingham Palace spokesman has said it is not ruling out legal action against the newspaper and its reporter.  In his Banqueting House speech, President Bush paid tribute to UK service personnel who died in the war in Iraq and those serving in the country.   Full route map of Thursday's protest  Enlarge Map And he said the UK and the US enjoyed a "very strong" relationship based on "an alliance of values".  Hailing the support he has received from Tony Blair, he went on: "The British people are the sort of partners you want when serious work needs doing.  "The men and women of this kingdom are kind and steadfast and generous and brave. And America is fortunate to call this country our closest friend in the world."  Mr Bush vowed that the coalition would not turn away from Iraq in the face of threats from "a band of thugs and assassins".  He also reaffirmed his pledge to work towards a viable Palestinian state amid security for Israel.  And he called for a "democratic revolution" in the Middle East.  Protest plans  At Prime Minister's Questions, Tony Blair stressed the importance of Britain's relationship with the US.  Conservative leader Michael Howard paid tribute to Mr Blair's close relationship with Mr Bush.  The Stop the War Coalition predicts that 100,000 people will take to the streets on Thursday for the main protest against Mr Bush's visit.   PRESIDENT BUSH'S ITINERARY Wednesday 19 November - Gives Banqueting House speech on transatlantic alliance, meets UK families of 11 Sept victims, meets Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy before attending royal banquet with Queen Thursday 20 November - Meets British soldiers who fought in Afghanistan and Iraq, holds meetings with Tony Blair at Downing Street and hosts dinner at US Ambassador's residence Friday 21 November - Travels to Tony Blair's Sedgefield constituency to meet members of the public before returning to Washington  Guantanamo appeal to Bush US press ignore Bush trip The formal welcome for Mr Bush and his wife Laura from the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh came after a 41-gun salute.  Peace campaigners are attempting to demonstrate their opposition to Mr Bush's visit in a series of protests across the capital.  Parliament Square, the South Bank and the Exxon-Mobil headquarters are among the locations earmarked for demonstrations.  A "roaming" Street Party and a Resist Bush Tea Party are also planned, while London Mayor Ken Livingstone has organised a peace party in City Hall for groups opposed to the war in Iraq.  Mr Bush is due to meet British families of those who died in the 11 September attacks in New York.  The president is also due to meet Mr Howard, who supported the war, and the Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, who opposed it.  In the evening, Mr and Mrs Bush will be guests of honour at a state banquet at the Palace. 
1 Iraq unveils new 'inclusive' flag  Iraq's US-appointed Governing Council has approved a new national flag for the embattled country, officials said. The design consists of a pale blue crescent on a white background, with a yellow strip between two blue lines at the bottom.  IGC spokesman Hameed al-Kafaei said the flag heralded "a new era" as Iraq could not continue using its flag from the Saddam Hussein era.  However, one Council member said Iraq had more pressing issues to deal with.  Controversial decision  The new design's crescent represents Islam, while the blue lines are meant to be the Tigris and Euphrates rivers and the yellow strip stands for the Kurdish minority.  Iraqi children waving Iraqi flags The old flag could be replaced in days Iraq's al-Sabah newspaper, which published the design in its print edition, said that the designer's name was Rifat al-Chaderchi and that his design had been chosen out of more than 30 proposals.  Baghdad residents who saw the proposed design seemed surprised, but some were positive.  "It is the real model as it represents all spectrum of the Iraqi society," one local told Associated Press.  The flag is to be officially unveiled later this week and will be flying over government buildings in the next few days, Mr Kafaei said.  Iraq's old Baathist-style flag - which predated Saddam Hussein - had red and black bands across the top and bottom, with a white band between them with three green stars.  Just before the 1991 Gulf War Saddam Hussein added the Arabic words "God is great" to the flag.  But not everyone is happy with the decision, with one Council member saying that Iraq's leaders should wait for an elected government before changing the flag.  "In my opinion, it should be not be passed until we have a parliament," Mahmoud Othman said.  "I think there are issues more important to concentrate on now than the changing of the flag."  Your views:  It should not be changed yet Ali Hamoudi, Iraqi in London The current flag is all what we know and have known all our lives, it cannot be changed just like that, I agree with those who say , it should not be changed yet, until we have a free elected government and parliament, and Iraq is Free from foreign occupation. Changing the Flag now, might see us changing it once again, once the occupation ends. Ali Hamoudi, Iraqi in London  Clearly, this flag indicates that we are now dealing with a new Iraq. This flag represents all the coalition wants in the country, unity. Maybe people will now see the coalition is not at war with Islam but with people against unity, democracy and peace. S. Winfield, Toronto, CA  Resemblance to the Israeli flag is striking. Two blue stripes, and a religious blue logo. Hazem, Egypt  I find the crescent extremely ugly. But also mixing Kurds, Islam and two rivers is a stupid idea. But this flag would be more beautiful if it was divided into two parts. The above part for the Shi'as and the lower part for the Kurds. Alan Barxawani, Hawler, Iraq   We don't need cosmetic gestures Ahmad Saleem, Baghdad No. We don't need cosmetic gestures. We need occupation forces to go away from the country and we need representative of people to come forward and restore law and order . Ahmad Saleem, Baghdad  In my opinion the Iraqi flag should not be changed without asking the Iraqi people. It is undemocratic to do so. Nobody has the right to impose anything on the Iraqis until they elect their own government. We have no problem with our flag as it is. Changing it is a desperate attempt to separate us from our brothers and sisters in the Arab world. Millions of Iraqi people like me are proud of our flag - red, white and black with three green stars. It represents our pan-Arab identity. Our flag had flown for more than 40 years and it has nothing to do with the previous regime. I will be very sad if what so called the new flag will be imposed on us and I will never regard it as part of my identity. Alia Salim, Basra Iraq  I think the so-called "governing council" has no right whatsoever to change the flag of Iraq. They are not a legitimate government and their decision would not be accepted by most Iraqis. The "governing council" should worry more about solving Iraq's problems and taking care of its people at this difficult time. Ala' Al-Tamimi, Basra - Iraq  I am quite disgusted. That flag has been around a long time and is still a pride to the nation itself. It sounds ridiculous to change the flag, because 'they want a new fresh start' and get rid of a flag that stands for the people and not for Saddam himself. After all there are many more important issues to be dealt with and the Iraqi people are certainly not ready for another big blow in their face. The Germans didn't change their flag when WWII ended to signify a new start why should we? Ani Iraqi/Leeds   The Iraqi flag must change if we are to advance to a new era Ghalib Ahmed Mahmood, Baghdad-Iraq The Iraqi flag must change if we are to advance to a new era combining all the Iraqis and their efforts to rebuild the cradle of civilization. However, an elected government is better placed to tackle the flag issue rather than an unelected governing council. I also believe the Iraqi people should have their say at least through debates and the people in charge should consider more designs over a longer period of time. Ghalib Ahmed Mahmood, Baghdad-Iraq  I support the new flag. Aziz Rafah, Najaf, Iraq  First of all, I think the Iraqi flag existed before Saddam (he only added a few things on it, I believe). Secondly, it is not the moment to set up a new flag when this country has got more important problems to solve at the moment. Such decisions should be made by a legal and voted government anyway, and that is not the case at the moment. What Iraq needs is not a new flag but a democracy which will put an end to this illegal occupation. Rafa, London, England  Should not be approved until elected members decide in parliament Riaz, Baghdad  Should not be approved by forces which the majority of the people think are occupation forces. It should be delayed till elected members decide. Riaz, Baghdad   The original flag should remain as part of Iraq's national history forever Tala, Baltimore, Iraq/USA As an Iraqi American, I am quite disheartened to hear of the change of the Iraqi flag. The colours red, white, black and green connect Iraq with the flags of its Arab brethren. Even though this flag flew under Saddam's regime, a country should not shy away or be ashamed of its past. The devastation that my country faced under Saddam will only make it stronger and the original flag should remain as part of Iraq's national history forever. Tala, Baltimore, Iraq/USA  This should be decided by the people of Iraq and not by Foreign Armed forces or their elected people. Will Americans or British accept the same for their country? Please address the more serious issues and not waste time on these Riazullah Azmat, Baghdad  I believe its one of the most successful decisions that is made by the IGC. As a Kurd, I like the idea and it's such a nice feeling when I see the flag representing all the Iraqis equally. I also have to say that the old flag is a reminder of all the dark days of ruling Iraq by Saddam Hussein. Saman Ahmed, London - UK  No Iraq should not change the national flag that has been there before Saddam came to power so why change it? Plus it means a lot to all the Iraqis and to all the Arabs. I think the flag should stay as it is right now. Abdullah Amir Ali, London, UK  While I agree that there are more important issue to concentrate on and that a new flag should be voted on by an elected body, I support the change to the new flag. The old flag, like Saddam, represented a very dark and very bloody period in Iraq's recent history. Fawaz Saraf, USA (Iraqi American)  It is not the right for the American government to change the flag of the Iraqi people as it would only be accepted by the puppets who the Americans have got "running Iraq" at the moment. Maybe the Americans should concentrate more on bringing peace and stability to Iraq before making any other decisions and leave the changing of the flag to the Iraqi people if they want to change it . Ali Ibn Khalil, Scotland, UK  The new flag is much better then the old one, but in my opinion there should bee a much more representative symbol of Kurdish people and Kurdistan in the new flag. Delshad, Zaxo-Kurdistan-Irag   It would be great to put the words freedom in our flag symbolizing freedom from dictatorships Muhammed Alzer, Baghdad Iraq I believe what America is doing is great for us. It is very sad to see that there are people in Iraq who are still brain washed to continue anti-US rebellion. The country should be renamed "New Iraq" symbolizing a new era for our country and the end of Saddam Hussein era. I thank God for this so I must say the God is great quote should not be removed. I also believe it would be great to put the words freedom in our flag symbolizing freedom from dictatorships. God Bless America for saving us please forgive us who are ignorant and resist US help. Muhammed Alzer, Baghdad Iraq  IGC (The Puppets) are doing what they are asked to do by Mr.Bremer. The Kurds are saying "we are Kurds before we are Iraqis" so why having them in our flag?. It is not Chalabi or Rubaie that can decide the symbol of our land - they know New York and London better than Baghdad. They are not Iraqis. Zidane Sinjarie, Mosul, Iraq  I am sincerely disappointed but not surprised by this premature action taken by the unelected governing council. The national colours of a country is something that the whole population should decide upon and not those few appointed by one country. It is the people's flag and not their flag. This matter should be decided upon by a new Iraqi parliament, a body that truly represents the Iraqi people! Amir Moustafa, Egypt  I don't mind changing the Iraqi flag, though that doesn't really seem a priority. But the design that now has been chosen has something wrong with it when it comes to the beauty of the design - it has no artistic feeling at all. Sameer al Hassan, Karbala, Iraq  The flag represent real Iraq of its two rivers and as an Islamic Country. We Iraqis, whether Muslims or otherwise, enjoy the romantic scenery of the crescent reflecting its lights on Tigris or Euphrates. Yaqthan Kamil, Baghdad-Iraq  No I think its not a true democracy if the opinion of majority whom do not like the new flag is not taken into account and a decision to implement this new flag is wrongfully taken! Maqsooda Faree, Baghdad Iraq  I am an Iraqi exile having left Iraq over 25 years ago, I was hoping of going back, but after the troubles I decided to wait. If the new flag is approved I will never go back. I would love to meet the 25p an hour designer they used to come up with such a design, or was the designer a £1000 hour, because his father is a close friend of Mr. Bush's second cousin? Zaid El-Hamdoon, London, UK  The concept of a new flag looks wonderful, however, I think it should be voted on. As a Muslim, I like the crescent on the flag, but what about everyone in Iraq who is not Muslim? I think a better approach would be to keep the colours and not have the crescent, or if there is a crescent, add other symbols to include the other faiths in Iraq, both past and today. Omar S, Iraq/USA 
1 Vatican slams handling of Saddam US doctors examine Saddam Hussein's teeth Images of Saddam in custody were flashed around the world A top Roman Catholic official has attacked the way Saddam Hussein was treated by his US captors, saying he had been dealt with like an animal. Cardinal Renato Martino said he had felt pity watching video of "this man destroyed, [the military] looking at his teeth as if he were a beast".  The cardinal, a leading critic of the US-led war in Iraq, said he hoped the capture would not make matters "worse".  A senior US official has defended the decision to show the pictures.   Seeing him like this, a man in his tragedy, despite all the heavy blame he bears, I had a sense of compassion for him Cardinal Renato Martino The official said the broadcast of Saddam Hussein undergoing a medical examination was allowed under the Geneva Conventions in order to maintain peace and security.  There was no attempt to humiliate the prisoner, the official said.  A daughter of Saddam Hussein has said she believes her father was drugged before US soldiers captured him.  Rallies in support of the deposed Iraqi president have continued in central and northern Iraq along with attacks on security forces.  'Compassion'  Cardinal Martino said on Tuesday that the US "could have spared us these pictures".  Road sealed off by police near St Peter's The Vatican is on the alert for a terror attack over Christmas "Seeing him like this, a man in his tragedy, despite all the heavy blame he bears, I had a sense of compassion for him," he told reporters.  The cardinal said the arrest was a "watershed" development but he hoped it would "not have... serious consequences".  The Vatican has consistently opposed the attack on Iraq and the cardinal added that it would be "illusory" to hope that Saddam Hussein's capture would "repair the dramas and the damage" the war had wrought.  Cardinal Martino was speaking as Italian police implemented new security arrangements at the Vatican following a warning that it could become a terror target during the Christmas season.  The main road leading to the Vatican is now to be closed every night during the Christmas holidays as a precaution.  Support for the 'lion'  Saddam Hussein's eldest daughter Raghad has called for an international trial for her father - saying the new, US-backed authorities in Iraq will not give him a free trial.  Saddam supporters in Falluja this week Saddam still enjoys support among Iraq's Sunni Muslims Speaking from Jordan, Raghad said she could not bear to see the pictures of her father put out by the US.  She insisted her father must have been drugged before his capture.  "Everyone who knew him closely knows that the man who was shown on television screens was a drugged Saddam Hussein," she told an Arabic television channel.  She added that she was proud of her father, whom she called a lion, and announced that she and her sisters Rana and Hala would appoint a lawyer to defend him in court.  Rallies inside Iraq in support of Saddam Hussein continued on Tuesday.  A demonstration in the northern city of Mosul ended in violence when gunmen shot dead one policeman and wounded another.  Earlier about 1,000 protesters had marched through the city chanting pro-Saddam slogans and condemning the US-administration and its Iraqi allies.  US troops backed by helicopters have moved in to disperse pro-Saddam protesters in the town of Falluja, killing one Iraqi they said had fired a grenade at them.  The previous day rioters seized the mayor's office in the town. 
1 Ambassadors' letter to Blair Here is the letter sent by more than 50 former British ambassadors to Tony Blair, urging him either to influence US policy in the Middle East or to stop backing it: We the undersigned former British ambassadors, high commissioners, governors and senior international officials, including some who have long experience of the Middle East and others whose experience is elsewhere, have watched with deepening concern the policies which you have followed on the Arab-Israel problem and Iraq, in close co-operation with the United States.  Following the press conference in Washington at which you and President Bush restated these policies, we feel the time has come to make our anxieties public, in the hope that they will be addressed in Parliament and will lead to a fundamental reassessment.  The decision by the USA, the EU, Russia and the UN to launch a Road Map for the settlement of the Israel/Palestine conflict raised hopes that the major powers would at last make a determined and collective effort to resolve a problem which, more than any other, has for decades poisoned relations between the West and the Islamic and Arab worlds.  The legal and political principles on which such a settlement would be based were well established: President Clinton had grappled with the problem during his presidency; the ingredients needed for a settlement were well understood and informal agreements on several of them had already been achieved. But the hopes were ill-founded.  Nothing effective has been done either to move the negotiations forward or to curb the violence.  Britain and the other sponsors of the Road Map merely waited on American leadership, but waited in vain.  Worse was to come. After all those wasted months, the international community has now been confronted with the announcement by Ariel Sharon and President Bush of new policies which are one-sided and illegal and which will cost yet more Israeli and Palestinian blood.  Our dismay at this backward step is heightened by the fact that you yourself seem to have endorsed it, abandoning the principles which for nearly four decades have guided international efforts to restore peace in the Holy Land and which have been the basis for such successes as those efforts have produced.  This abandonment of principle comes at a time when rightly or wrongly we are portrayed throughout the Arab and Muslim world as partners in an illegal and brutal occupation in Iraq.  The conduct of the war in Iraq has made it clear that there was no effective plan for the post-Saddam settlement.  All those with experience of the area predicted that the occupation of Iraq by the Coalition forces would meet serious and stubborn resistance, as has proved to be the case.  To describe the resistance as led by terrorists, fanatics and foreigners is neither convincing nor helpful.  Policy must take account of the nature and history of Iraq, the most complex country in the region.  However much Iraqis may yearn for a democratic society, the belief that one could now be created by the Coalition is naive.  This is the view of virtually all independent specialists in the region, both in Britain and in America.  We are glad to note that you and the president have welcomed the proposals outlined by Lakhdar Brahimi.  We must be ready to provide what support he requests, and to give authority to the United Nations to work with the Iraqis themselves, including those who are now actively resisting the occupation, to clear up the mess.  The military actions of the Coalition forces must be guided by political objectives and by the requirements of the Iraq theatre itself, not by criteria remote from them.  It is not good enough to say that the use of force is a matter for local commanders.  Heavy weapons unsuited to the task in hand, inflammatory language, the current confrontations in Najaf and Falluja, all these have built up rather than isolated the opposition.  The Iraqis killed by coalition forces probably total between 10,000 and 15,000 (it is a disgrace that the coalition forces themselves appear to have no estimate), and the number killed in the last month in Falluja alone is apparently several hundred, including many civilians, men, women and children.  Phrases such as `We mourn each loss of life. We salute them, and their families for their bravery and their sacrifice,' apparently referring only to those who have died on the Coalition side, are not well judged to moderate the passions those killings arouse.  We share your view that the British Government has an interest in working as closely as possible with the United States on both these related issues, and in exerting real influence as a loyal ally.  We believe that the need for such influence is now a matter of the highest urgency.  If that is unacceptable or unwelcome there is no case for supporting policies which are doomed to failure.  Signatories: Brian Barder; Paul Bergne; John Birch; David Blatherwick; Graham Boyce; Julian Bullard; Juliet Campbell; Bryan Cartledge; Terence Clark; David Colvin; Francis Cornish; James Craig; Brian Crowe; Basil Eastwood; Stephen Egerton; William Fullerton; Dick Fyjis-Walker; Marrack Goulding; John Graham; Andrew Green; Vic Henderson; Peter Hinchcliffe; Brian Hitch; Archie Lamb and David Logan.  Christopher Long; Ivor Lucas; Ian McCluney; Maureen MacGlashan; Philip McLean; Christopher MacRae; Oliver Miles; Martin Morland; Keith Morris; Richard Muir; Alan Munro; Stephen Nash; Robin O'Neill; Andrew Palmer; Bill Quantrill; David Ratford; Tom Richardson; Andrew Stuart; David Tatham; Crispin Tickell; Derek Tonkin; Charles Treadwell; Hugh Tunnell; Jeremy Varcoe; Hooky Walker; Michael Weir and Alan White. 
1 UK troops 'left without key kit' British troops before leaving Cyprus for Iraq Protection suits arrived late Frontline forces were left without vital kit during the Iraq War because of supply failures, a report says. Nuclear, chemical and biological weapon protection suits and desert clothing did not reach or fit many troops, the National Audit Office report says.  The Whitehall watchdog says morale was hit with a typical view being: "We're out here fighting and you can't be bothered to buy us a proper uniform."  Despite the failings the report praises the scale and speed of the operation.  'Shameful'  Conservative MP Edward Leigh, chairman of the Commons public accounts committee, said: "We expect the men and women of the armed forces to fight and maybe die for us. So it is an outrage that they could not expect all of the proper equipment, protection and even clothing to do the job we ask of them.  "They were shamefully let down."   The supply system was simply swamped by the sheer volume of equipment David Clarke National audit office The National Audit Office (NAO) report says it was a major achievement to deploy 46,000 of British troops to Iraq within 10 weeks - half the time taken in the first Gulf War.  New and improved equipment, such as the Challenger Two main battle tank and the SA80A2 assault rifle, "performed well", it says.  But some of the Challenger tanks were only finally fully armoured up for desert warfare 48 hours before they went into battle.  Confidence drop  Some tanks and armoured vehicles never received the protective nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) protection filters with which they were meant to be equipped.  There was so much confusion in some cases that troops simply took the equipment they needed, says the report.   Overall, this was a remarkably successful operation Geoff Hoon Defence Secretary "The lack of confidence in the ability of the logistics system to meet units' needs in-theatre led to a considerable degree of misappropriation of equipment and stores moving through the supply chain," it says.  In an "extreme case", 1 (UK) Armoured Division sent a team back from Kuwait to their stores at Bicester in a vain attempt to find missing NBC detection kit.  And some of the 200,000 body armour sets issued since the 1999 Kosovo campaign appeared to have "disappeared".  "The supply system was simply swamped by the sheer volume of equipment," said NAO director David Clarke, whose team which drew up the report.  Clothing problems  Many of the problems were made worse because Treasury pressure meant the Ministry of Defence only held limited stocks of some kit in an effort to reduce costs, says the report.  As the deployment began, the ministry had to replace urgent orders with manufacturers, who sometimes had only just enough or too little time to deliver.  There was a 40% too few nerve agent detector units and the MoD's entire stock of 4,000 vapour detection kits, used by troops when they unmask after a suspected chemical attack, was found to be unserviceable.  "Difficulties" in providing enough NBC protection suits in some sizes were found and a some gas masks did not fit as well had been thought.  And problems getting desert clothing and boots to frontline troops meant some soldiers had to wear their normal green and black camouflage throughout the war.  Morale effect  The NAO says equipment shortages eroded troop morale.  The lack of proper desert clothing was particularly resented by the troops, said Mr Clarke.  The report also points to failures in planning for the coalition's duties after the main phase of the conflict was over.  "Our experience from the field visit to Iraq was that the government had not fully appreciated the consequences of a total collapse of the Saddam regime and what the UK's obligations would be once hostilities ceased," it says.  'Remarkable success'  Sir John Bourn, head of the NAO, said: "The scale and speed with which the operation was carried out are both extremely impressive.  "There were problems, but these should be seen in the wider context of the overall success."  Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said he had repeatedly acknowledged the operation had not been perfect.  "But overall, this was a remarkably successful operation and conducted in a very short space of time to deliver huge amounts of people and material to conduct a very effective operation," he told MPs.  Mr Hoon said he was publishing a "tough" document on the lessons to be learnt from the Iraq operation.  Read a selection of your comments below.  Historically the British Government (of whatever political persuasion) has always expected the utmost dedication and professionalism of the armed forces, but has always been too parsimonious to pay or equip them properly. However, the politicians and civil servants who hold the purse strings would never put their lives on the line in the way they expect the forces to. This report just shows that nothing has changed. It was like this 100 years ago, it was like this when I joined the army in the 1970's, and it is the same now. Paul, Milton Keynes, England  As an ex-British soldier I know all about the lack of kit British soldiers have to put up with, but this lack of kit makes a British soldier more resourceful, inventive and adaptive, qualities of which breed good soldiers. This is one of the main reasons why the British squaddie is such a highly respected soldier throughout the world, compared to armies who get as much and what ever kit they want. This has always been the case and no doubt always will be. Ben, Redhill, Surrey  As a serving soldier I do buy my own kit and equipment to supplement issued clothing as many soldiers do. When NBC equipment and body armour is concerned we have no option but MOD equipment and receiving a canister 15 years old (5 years out of date) isn't good news. That said my unit's moral was good throughout the war, we just get on with it. John, Barnsley S, Yorks   A fairly typical story of how the British Army always goes to war Marc, London This is, I'm afraid, a fairly typical story of how the British Army always goes to war - with the wrong equipment loaded or not present thanks to cost-cutting in Whitehall. My Grandfather was a sergeant-major in September 1939 and recalled in his diary how shocked he was when the first British troops turned up. Some of the trucks had been hastily commandeered from civilians and hadn't been repainted khaki in time. Marc, London  I was out in the Gulf, and the lack of proper equipment was embarrassing and potentially fatal for the troops out there. I have been in the RAF for 14 years and during that time there have been constant cutbacks to save money. Some good and plenty bad. If you are going to send someone out to, possibly their death, a war zone there should always be enough equipment in working order to enhance survival. What price do you put on a life? In some cases the price of a fuse it seems. Mark S, Scotland  Although I do understand the need for appropriate equipment, surely troops in the field should be trained to be happy with what they have? Never in the history of warfare have the logistics been perfect. Two hundred years ago troops didn't have food - now they're complaining that they have the wrong coloured clothing. I'm not saying we shouldn't try and improve things - but a soldier's life is a hard one - fact. And we should really stop complaining. Pete, York, UK  I served in the Army for 20 years, and all during that time, myself and my colleagues bought a lot of our own kit, as that issued was never really up to the job. It's a sad reflection when our guys/gals buy a mixture of other countries' and privately made kit. I believe the MOD knows that service people will do this and therefore buy the cheapest priced kit, or don't issue it in the first place. As was said to me on many occasions...."if we've got it, it's the cheapest tender on the market"!! Steve Schanzer, Cwmbran Wales   A lack of funds to do the job properly Anon, Cambs, UK My brother is in the Army and works in the Logistics arena. The main problem they have is, as always, a lack of funds to do the job properly. Government cutbacks, as stated in the piece, mean inadequate supplies to hand, and difficulty getting new supplies from manufacturers in short timescales. Although the general 'management' of the army has improved dramatically, there are still limits to what can be done with limited funds. Anon, Cambs, UK  This doesn't surprise me. Cost-cutting and outsourcing of logistics and store staff means that vital jobs are carried out by people on £4.00 an hour, working 8 hour days. No wonder 1 Armoured had to send a team back to Bicester! I visited that depot shortly before the ground campaign started, and three members of staff were playing indoor football while others attempted to pack kit. Rob, Durham, UK  My brother had to buy his own kit before he left for Iraq and was sent across into the front line without body armour. He and his friends had to swap regimental badges with the Americans for decent equipment and desert clothing. Heather, Leeds, UK   Where are their priorities? Annie, Bristol My partner is in the army and to ensure that he can do his job to the best of his ability, he has to buy various pieces of kit to replace the army issue stuff which is just not good enough. The lack of vital equipment for front line troops shows complete disregard for the safety of our boys by the government - and despite ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq as well as the war of terror, the forces are facing more cuts. Where are their priorities? It's clear the Blair's son isn't in the forces! Annie, Bristol  I joined the Army in 1963 as a young boy soldier and received a re-issued First World War Uniform, complete with what appeared to be a bullet hole under the right arm. I continued to serve in HM forces in one form or another for a total of 36 years, and towards the latter end of my career found more and more soldiers purchasing their own items of uniform in order to be able to cope with the elements and the circumstances under which they were expected to serve their country. Brian Lee, Doncaster Yorkshire  I served in the first Gulf War and these supply issues existed then. It would appear that the MOD/Treasury are more concerned with cost cutting/saving than provision of all essential equipment to its troops. British servicemen are respected the world over for their skills. However it is embarrassing to be constantly under equipped when in the field, a point often raised by other nationalities. Pete, Norwich, Norfolk  Like Pete, I was in the first Gulf operation and I completely agree with his view. I was posted to a Field Hospital and we were embarrassed to have to ask forces from other countries for the basic eqiuipment {things like shelving} to allow the hospital servicable. I received my desert combat kit on the day the cease fire was ordered. The MOD will never learn until it becomes more accountable. Alan, Herefordshire UK  The inability of the MoD to supply our troops with NBC suits doesn't sit well with the fact that for many months before the war the entire justification for sending our troops to Iraq was the existence, and possible use, of chemical and biological weapons. So were the MoD incompetent, or did they just never believe our troops were at risk of NBC attack? Alan, UK 
1 US interrogators grill Saddam Saddam Hussein after his capture The US said Saddam Hussein offered no resistance Deposed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has reportedly yielded no direct intelligence information since his capture near his home town of Tikrit. He has "not been co-operative in terms of talking", a senior US official said, though the capture appears to have led to a number of further arrests.  US officials were also cautious about his eventual fate as calls came for him to be tried either in Iraq or abroad.  Two car bombs exploded in the Baghdad area on Monday, killing eight people.  Arrests  US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Saddam Hussein was being accorded the privileges of a prisoner-of-war under the Geneva Convention. But he said America was not defining him as a PoW.   US soldier emerges from Saddam Hussein's tiny hideout If coalition forces can't take some information from him regarding weapons of mass destruction, I will consider the American invasion to Iraq to be unjustified Khakimov Khait, Tashkent  Saddam's fate: Your views How Saddam was captured Mr Rumsfeld said Saddam Hussein's fate would be decided at a senior level.  He warned that any trial would have to be "acceptable and appropriate and would ensure that he would be brought to justice".  Iraq's new US-backed leaders have been demanding a trial under an Iraqi tribunal formed last week.  The US military has said it has identified a militant cell in Baghdad and made a number of arrests of anti-coalition figures in the city on the basis of information "gleaned" from Saddam Hussein's capture.  A couple of key individuals had been seized in Baghdad since Saturday, said spokesman Brigadier General Mark Hertling.  These included a high-ranking former figure from the Saddam government who in turn "gave up a few others," he said.  General Hertling told AP news agency that the arrests had been prompted by the transcript of Saddam Hussein's initial interrogation as well as a briefcase of documents found in his hideout.  The spokesman added that he expected Saddam Hussein to produce "some significant intelligence over the next couple of days".  Time magazine, quoting a US intelligence official, reports that he denied during initial questioning that his country possessed weapons of mass destruction.  "The US dreamed them up itself to have a reason to go to war with us," the magazine quoted the former president as saying.  'I am the president of Iraq'  The whereabouts of the former president is unclear. Reports that he has been moved to a US facility in Qatar have been denied by the Iraqi authorities.  Colonel James Hickey, who led the raid on Saddam Hussein's hideout on Saturday, has revealed that soldiers were seconds away from throwing a hand grenade into the pit where he was hiding before he surrendered.   It marks the end of the road for him and all who bullied and killed in his name President Bush  Bush statement in full Arrest grabs headlines The operation was launched, Colonel Hickey said, on the basis of information from an individual arrested in Baghdad on Friday, then brought to Tikrit for interrogation on Saturday morning.  It is not known if the Americans intend to pay a $25m reward offered for information about him.  The troops who came across Saddam Hussein on Saturday were offered "negotiations", spokesman Major Brian Reed said on Monday.  "I am Saddam Hussein, I am the president of Iraq and I want to negotiate," the former leader was quoted as saying in English from his pit.  The soldiers, according to Major Reed, replied with the words "President Bush sends his regards".  Calls for trial  Iran has added its voice to calls for Saddam Hussein to be tried for crimes, saying he should be tried in an international court over the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war.   SADDAM: POSSIBLE CHARGES Victims of the Halabja gas attack Campaign against the Kurds in the 1980s, including the use of poison gas at Halabja Suppression of Kurdish and Shia revolts after the first Gulf War Brutality against the Marsh Arabs Crimes committed during the wars against Iran and Kuwait Possible involvement in recent attacks on coalition forces and other targets in Iraq  Details of likely charges What happens now? The US-appointed Iraqi Governing Council (IGC) has called for him to be tried inside Iraq by Iraqi judges "under the supervision of international experts".  The current president of the IGC, Abdel Aziz al-Hakim, said Monday that Saddam Hussein could face the death penalty if convicted in an Iraqi court.  A special tribunal was set up in Iraq last week to try leading members of the former government.  Charles Heathley, spokesman for the US-led administration in Iraq, said on Monday he expected the new tribunal would charge Saddam Hussein "in due course" and ask the coalition to hand him over.  Red Cross  However, some human rights groups say an international tribunal - without the power to award the death penalty - would be preferable to a trial in Iraq.  The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has said it expects to have access to the captured former president .  There was no fixed time frame for the visit, a spokesman told AP.  "But we expect Saddam Hussein - as any other presumed, real or accepted PoW - will at some stage be visited by the ICRC."  World leaders have welcomed the capture, including some who opposed the war to oust Saddam Hussein such as President Jacques Chirac of France who said it would strongly contribute to democracy and stability in Iraq.  There was also condemnation of his treatment in some parts of the Arab world.  Abdel Azziz Rantissi, a leader of the Palestinian militant organisation Hamas, accused the US of an "ugly and despicable... insult to all Arabs and an insult to Muslims". 
1 Profile of Clare Short By Nick Assinder BBC News Online political correspondent  Clare Short has lobbed another grenade into the government with her claim that British spooks routinely bugged UN officials. Tony Blair and Clare Short Clare Short has regularly attacked Prime Minister Ever since she quit the government over the Iraq war, she has maintained her fierce criticism of the prime minister for his role in taking the country into that conflict - even going so far as to demand his resignation.  It is not the first time she has turned her anger onto her own party leader. She has resigned from the Labour Party frontbench three times - twice over the Gulf Wars and once over prevention of terrorism laws.  And along with former Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, she led the backbench critics of the war.  But unlike Mr Cook who quit on the eve of the war, the way she went severely damaged her standing with her previous supporters.  Clare Short in 1989 The MP has resigned before Rather than quitting before the war she publicly agonised over the rights and wrongs of the conflict - and only decided to quit her post as International Development Secretary once the main hostilities ended.  That bemused many of her traditional allies in the Labour left - and her latest revelation is likely to raise the question of why, if she had been concerned by the intelligence services' behaviour, she did not resign at the time.  On the wane  Clare Short built her political career on her reputation as a principled straight talker and is a formidable figure in the Commons who can be emotional and occasionally savage.  Ms Short's passionate beliefs developed early in her life. She was born and bred in Birmingham, the second of seven children of Irish parents.  Her father, a teacher, came from Crossmaglen and she was once strident in her call for British troops to leave Northern Ireland.  With a degree in political science, Clare Short had no notion of entering Parliament until she worked as a private secretary to a Conservative Home Office minister, Mark Carlisle, and found many MPs decidedly "unimpressive" at their jobs.  She thought "I could do that" and in 1983 became the member for Birmingham, Ladywood.  Secret son  An early target was The Sun's Page Three girl and similar newspaper photographs. The failure of her bill to ban them was inevitable.  After calling for the legalisation of cannabis and suggesting that perhaps people like herself could afford to pay more tax, she strained Tony Blair's patience when she refrained from backing his line in a TV interview about tube strikes.  Later she stunned Westminster by introducing her secret son, Toby, to the public, 31 years after she had given him up for adoption.  Her recent rebellions include stands over the sale of an expensive military air traffic system to Tanzania and government plans for top-up fees for students.  Ms Short was also the first cabinet minister to condemn Labour's acceptance of a donation from soft porn publisher Richard Desmond. 
1 MI6 ran 'dubious' Iraq campaign Scott Ritter Mr Ritter has become a critic of the war on Iraq British intelligence ran a campaign designed to exaggerate Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, a former US intelligence officer has claimed. Former UN chief weapons inspector Scott Ritter said the disinformation drive in the late 1990s was designed to shift public opinion.  Mr Ritter has been a vocal critic of military action against Iraq since leaving the inspections team in 1998.  A spokesman for MI6 said the allegations were "unfounded".  He told reporters in the House of Commons that he was involved personally with Operation Mass Appeal between the summer of 1997 until August 1998 when he resigned from the UN.  Mr Ritter said the MI6 operation was designed to "shake up public opinion" by passing dubious intelligence on Iraq to the media.  The so-called "non-actionable intelligence" dealt with Saddam Hussein's alleged campaign to possess and conceal weapons of mass destruction. He said the intelligence was "single source data of dubious quality".  Mr Ritter claimed this was the first time the existence of Operation Mass Appeal had been revealed.  He urged MPs to hold a fresh inquiry in the use of intelligence in the run up to the war against Iraq.  He declined to give specific examples of disinformation but said he was prepared to reveal details before a public inquiry.  Dubious data  Mr Ritter said: "I was brought into the operation in 1997 because at the UN... I sat on a body of data which was not actionable, but was sufficiently sexy that if it could appear in the press could make Iraq look like in a bad way.  "I was approached by MI6 to provide that data, I met with the Mass Appeal operatives both in New York and London on several occasions. This data was provided and this data did find its way into the international media.  "It was intelligence data that dealt with Iraq's efforts to procure WMDs, with Iraq's efforts to conceal WMDs. It was all single source data of dubious quality, which lacked veracity.  "They took this information and peddled it off to the media, internationally and domestically, allowing inaccurate intelligence data, to appear on the front pages.  "The government, both here in the UK and the US, would feed off these media reports, continuing the perception that Iraq was a nation ruled by a leader with an addiction to WMDs."  A spokesman speaking on behalf of MI6 told BBC News Online: "The allegation that Ritter was using MI6 material is unfounded." 
1 Greg Dyke has said he was forced to quit as director general of the BBC by the corporation's governors. He said he had offered to resign if he did not have their full support and they agreed he should go.  Mr Dyke also revealed that the entire board of governors had considered quitting after the critical Hutton report into Dr David Kelly's death.  He told BBC One's Breakfast with Frost: "I urged them not to all go, you can't have a BBC with nobody there."  Confidence  Mr Dyke said he had told the board: "'If I haven't got your confidence, I can't stay'.  The moment the BBC starts kowtowing to government, you might as well close it down - it's as simple as that Greg Dyke Dyke's letter to Blair  Greg Dyke on his departure from the BBC "At that stage I left the room. An hour or so later I discovered they had decided to suggest I leave. I'd offered it - that was it."  Mr Dyke, who quit a day after Gavyn Davies resigned as BBC chairman, also renewed his criticism of the government and Lord Hutton on Sunday.  In an interview in The Sunday Times he accused Downing Street of "systematically bullying" and intimidating the corporation over its coverage of the war in Iraq.  He also released a letter he sent in response to one sent by Prime Minister Tony Blair during the Iraq war.  Strenuous efforts  The letter read: "For you to question the whole of the BBC's journalistic output ... because you are concerned about particular stories which don't favour your view is unfair."   The outcome of charter renewal will be a strong BBC ... that is independent of government Tessa Jowell  Hutton polls not good for Blair Mr Dyke said the BBC had made strenuous efforts to ensure issues and events surrounding the war were properly reported.  He had published the letter because it demonstrated the "intense pressure" Number 10 was putting on the BBC.  Downing Street has refused to comment on "confidential correspondence".  Mr Dyke said Lord Hutton "did not appear" to have considered evidence from the BBC which showed ex-Downing Street media chief Alastair Campbell had "inundated" the corporation with complaints.  Mr Campbell had been trying to "intimidate the BBC so we reported what he wanted us to report as opposed to what we wanted to report".  "That's fair enough - that's his job - but our job is to resist that."  BBC criticism  Mr Dyke said with hindsight he wished he had launched an inquiry into Andrew Gilligan's Radio 4 Today programme report when Mr Campbell first "went ballistic", rather than rushing to respond.  But he said the Kelly affair had probably shown the government that "the people out there much prefer us to a bunch of the latest politicians who happen to be in government".  He added: "The moment the BBC starts kowtowing to government, you might as well close it down. It's as simple as that."  Mr Dyke also accused Lord Hutton of not understanding the law, as it applied to the media, in reaching his conclusions.  But he conceded that Mr Gilligan, who resigned on Friday, had "changed his position a bit" from what he had told the BBC about his notes and conversation with Dr Kelly, and when it came to the inquiry.  High standards  Acting Director General Mark Byford said the corporation accepted it had made errors and should now move on.  He said Mr Gilligan's claim that most of his story was right was "not good enough for the BBC".  A Commissioner for Public Appointments has been asked to oversee the selection of a new BBC chairman to ensure public confidence in its independence.  Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said the Hutton report would not adversely affect the BBC's charter renewal, but the process would consider its findings.  "I can absolutely guarantee that the outcome of charter renewal will be a strong BBC and a BBC that is independent of government," she said.  Constitutional Affairs Secretary Lord Falconer insisted Lord Hutton was a judge "of unimpeachable standing" and denied any plot to produce a "whitewash". 
1 The head of Iraq's Interim Governing Council says Iran should be paid reparations for the war that Saddam Hussein waged against it in the 1980s. Abdul Aziz al-Hakim said further discussion was needed to decide what if anything Iraq would pay itself.  Iran claims $100bn in reparations for the brutal eight-year war that claimed about one million lives.  Mr Hakim's remarks may augur improving Iran-Iraq relations now Saddam Hussein is in custody.  The prominent Iraqi is also the head of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq (Sciri) the most important Shia Muslim party represented on the governing council.  Sciri has close ties with Tehran, where the party was based during Saddam Hussein's years in power.  Analysts say that with Iraq's Shia majority likely to dominate in any future democratic government, it is logical that Baghdad should now develop warmer relations with its Shia neighbours in Iran.  Mustard gas  In 1980, after a series of border skirmishes following Iran's Islamic revolution, Iraq invaded Iran.   According to the UN, Iran deserves reparations. She must be satisfied. Abdul Aziz al-Hakim  On this day: Iraq bombs Iran The ensuing war claimed the lives of at least one million people and during the conflict, Iraq used nerve gas against the Iranians.  The Iranian Government is preparing a comprehensive complaint against Saddam Hussein for "crimes" against the Islamic republic, calling for the captured former Iraqi leader to be tried before an international court.  Some Iranian observers say the US should also be in the dock with Saddam Hussein, as Washington supported him at the time of the war.  An estimated 20,000 Iranians were killed by Iraqi mustard gas or by nerve agents during the conflict.  Death penalty  Iran points out that Kuwait has already received billions of dollars through the UN's Iraqi oil-for-food programme in compensation for the invasion of that country.  Saddam Hussein, pictured shaved after his arrest Mr Hakim said Saddam Hussein would be tried in Iraq Mr Hakim said: "According to the UN, Iran deserves reparations. She must be satisfied. Whether we will pay or not is something which we need to discuss further."  The council leader was speaking after talks with UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw in London.  Mr Hakim also told a news conference that Saddam Hussein would be tried in a special Iraqi court.  International monitors could observe the trial, which would take global legal standards into account, Mr Hakim added.  He did not say whether the former Iraqi president, captured at the weekend, would face the death penalty.  "[Saddam Hussein] will be tried and after that we will do what the judge and the court will decide", Mr Hakim told reporters.  Just days before Saddam Hussein's capture, the Iraqi council announced that a tribunal would be set up to try members of the former regime.  Saddam 'still in Iraq'  Speculation over the ousted leader's whereabouts has been intense since his capture on Saturday near his home town of Tikrit. The US military has only said that Saddam Hussein is being held at "an undisclosed location" in Iraq.  Council member Mowaffaq al-Rubaie told reporters: "Saddam Hussein is present in an area of greater Baghdad... God willing... he will be tried in Iraq in public by an Iraqi court."  He was responding to media reports that had suggested that Saddam Hussein had been flown to the Gulf state of Qatar.  On Wednesday Arab League officials said a fact-finding delegation, headed by Assistant Secretary General Ahmad Bin Heley, would leave for Iraq on Thursday.  The team will meet Council members, visit mass graves and discuss human rights violations by the former regime.  
1 Translator turns 'whistle-blower' Katharine Gun Katharine Gun was sacked from her job as translator The daughter of a university lecturer, Katharine Gun was thrust into the limelight after being accused of leaking top secret information. The 29-year-old from the Regency Cotswold town of Cheltenham was a little-known translator working at the government's communications headquarters GCHQ.  But in March last year she was arrested, accused of breaching the Official Secrets Act by leaking an e-mail to the Observer newspaper from US spies asking British counterparts to tap the telephones of UN Security Council members.  In June 2003 she was sacked from her post.  She always admitted leaking the e-mail but argued she had "only ever followed her conscience" to prevent an "illegal war against Iraq".  The revelations contained in the leaked memo made her a cause celebre in the US.  'Role in democracy'  Actor Sean Penn and civil rights activist the Reverend Jesse Jackson were among the American celebrities who lined up to support her stance.  Five members of the US Congress also released an open letter to Tony Blair backing her actions.   Any disclosures that may have been made were justified... because they exposed serious illegality Katharine Gun  Ex-GCHQ officer 'preventing war' Their statement read: "The British and American people deserved to know all the elements involved in the build-up to war. Whistleblowers play an essential role in a democracy."  Ms Gun, who grew up in Taiwan and is a fluent Mandarin speaker, denied the charge and could have been sentenced to a two-year jail sentence if she had been convicted.  But after she made her not guilty plea, the prosecution said that no evidence would be offered against her.  'Dirty tricks'  The 31 January memo reportedly said the US monitoring body, the National Security Agency had begun a "surge" in eavesdropping on UN Security Council countries about to vote on action in Iraq.  The author of the memo was supposedly Frank Koza, Defence Chief of Staff (Regional Targets) at the agency.  The Observer ran an article in March claiming GCHQ had been asked to help spy on the six countries key to the passing of a second UN resolution on Iraq.  Officials from Angola, Cameroon, Chile, Bulgaria, Guinea and Pakistan all had their phones tapped in what the Observer described as a "dirty tricks" operation.   Katharine Gun She didn't endanger anyone's life and she didn't put national security at risk Barry Hugill, Liberty At the time of Ms Gun said in a statement: "Any disclosures that may have been made were justified... because they exposed serious illegality and wrongdoing on the part of the US government who attempted to subvert our own security services; and to prevent wide-scale death and casualties among ordinary Iraqi people and UK forces in the course of an illegal war."  The interpreter's mother, Jan Harwood, said she is "deeply proud" of her daughter's actions which had revealed government "wrong-doing".  Her father Paul Harwood is a lecturer in European literature at Taiwan's Tunghai University.  His married daughter was educated in Taiwan before moving to Eastbourne, East Sussex, to study A-levels.  She went on to read modern Chinese with Japanese at Durham University where she was described as a bright, capable, "lively" student who would always speak out if she had something to say.  She was represented in court by civil rights group Liberty.  Its spokesman, Barry Hugill, said Ms Gunn's case "was a clear act of conscience.  "She didn't endanger anyone's life and she didn't put national security at risk."  
1 Iraqis unimpressed by flag design  The flag is due to be officially unveiled on Wednesday Hundreds of Iraqis have been e-mailing BBC News Online to comment on the new Iraqi flag unveiled yesterday. Some said it was a welcome break from the former regime of Saddam Hussein, but many criticised the design.  The flag is mostly white with a blue crescent symbolising Islam. Two blue strips stand for Iraq's rivers while a yellow strip represents the Kurds.  The biggest complaint was that it had been chosen by Iraq's US-appointed council without consulting the people.  "I think the so-called Governing Council has no right whatsoever to change the flag of Iraq," Ala' Al-Tamimi from the southern city of Basra wrote in a typical response.  "They are not a legitimate government and their decision would not be accepted by most Iraqis."  Other Iraqis questioned the Council's priorities - such as Dunia Khalil Hussein from the Iraqi capital, Baghdad.   I will be very sad if the new flag will be imposed on us and I will never regard it as part of my identity. Alia Salim in Basra, Iraq She expressed disbelief that the Council had spent time and resources to change the Iraq flag while unrest continued in the country.  "Iraq has more important issues to be dealt with now," she said.  "The old flag didn't represent Saddam. It represented Iraq. Changing it means uprooting part of Iraq."  Her comments were echoed by Yasir Alani, also in Baghdad.  "As if all our problems are due to a flag that might appeal to some and not to others," he wrote.  Abu Ibrahim of Nasriyah says the design by Rifat Chaderchi was probably chosen because he is related to Governing Council member Naseer Chaderchi.  "We had over 30 designs to choose from for our new flag. Surprise, surprise he chose his younger brother's design which a lot of Iraqis say resembles the Israeli flag! Iraq is still a corrupt state."  Not Arab enough  Some readers felt the design alienated Iraqis from their fellow Arab nations.  "Millions of Iraqi people like me are proud of our flag - red, white and black with three green stars - it represents our pan-Arab identity," Alia Salim from Basra said.  'Old' Iraqi flag Some Iraqis said the current flag reminded them of the old regime The fact that it was Saddam Hussein who had the words Allahu Akbar (God is Great) during the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s is not a problem.  "Our flag had flown for more than 40 years and it has nothing to do with the previous regime," Alia says.  "I will be very sad if the new flag will be imposed on us and I will never regard it as part of my identity."  Many Iraqis echoed Abu Ibrahim saying the new design looked more than anything like the flag of their deadliest enemy - Israel.  UK-resident Hassan al-Zubaydi says this is just another example of how American is trying to isolate Iraq from the rest of the Arab World.  "This new flag adds to the list - we have a new flag which has similar colour markings to that of the Israeli flag? Coincidence? Highly unlikely!"  Tariq Abdel-Fattah, a Bagdadi living in the US, also notices a similarity which he says "makes me shiver since it resembles the death to Arabs".  'Unifying people'  Many Iraqis expressed regret that not enough of Iraq's ethnic and religious groups - such as Turkmen, Assyrians or Iraqi Christians - were represented in the design.   This is a horrible flag... since when was blue an Iraqi colour? Deneris Fann, Iraqi living in the UK "I am pleased that [Muslims] chose to be representative in its design," Isah Sahabbi al- Tikriti, an Iraqi living in the US state of Michigan, wrote.  "However, it would have been nice if they had included something for the Christians, like myself, in the design also."  But some found the flag tried too hard to include Iraq's diverse peoples.  "The old flag represents Iraq and that's what we need," Ehab Nader in Baghdad wrote  "We don't need a flag that represent different ethnic groups, we need a flag that unifies people and does not divide them into different groups."  'A good step'  For some Iraqi readers, the problem was of a simple aesthetic nature.  "This is a horrible flag... since when was blue an Iraqi colour?" asked Deneris Fann, an Iraqi currently living in the UK.  But while some did not like the design, the reasons behind it at least were admirable.  "It is still good that we are slowly getting rid of the material things of Saddam's era," one reader said.  There were a few positive voices amidst the chorus of disapproval.  "I believe that the new flag is a good step into the future of Iraq," one Baghdad resident said in his e-mail.  "It mirrors the current situation in Iraq, with all its problems and virtues."  And there were one or two suggested modifications.  "I like the blue for the rivers," enthused reader Ali Hussein Baghbar. "[But] make the crescent green, then it will be better."  No competition  The final word goes to Taha al-Hiti, an Iraqi calligrapher now living in London.  "Why was there no competition to design it? It doesn't sound very democratic when we hear about our symbols changing all of a sudden, without any question," he wrote to BBC News Online.  "I believe that the Iraqi culture has more expressive elements than two lines and a crescent.  "I am a part of the design team for the new Camden Town [underground] station in London. For the past months, we had to listen to every word, change our design according to the public interest.  "That was for an underground station. A country's identity is a much bigger issue, isn't it?" 
1 Blair terror speech in full Here is the full text of Tony Blair's speech spelling out the terror threat facing the UK and defending the Iraq war. No decision I have ever made in politics has been as divisive as the decision to go to war to in Iraq. It remains deeply divisive today.  I know a large part of the public want to move on. Rightly they say the Government should concentrate on the issues that elected us in 1997: the economy, jobs, living standards, health, education, crime.  I share that view, and we are. But I know too that the nature of this issue over Iraq, stirring such bitter emotions as it does, can't just be swept away as ill-fitting the pre-occupations of the man and woman on the street.  Real threat  This is not simply because of the gravity of war; or the continued engagement of British troops and civilians in Iraq; or even because of reflections made on the integrity of the prime minister.  It is because it was in March 2003 and remains my fervent view that the nature of the global threat we face in Britain and round the world is real and existential and it is the task of leadership to expose it and fight it, whatever the political cost; and that the true danger is not to any single politician's reputation, but to our country if we now ignore this threat or erase it from the agenda in embarrassment at the difficulties it causes.  In truth, the fundamental source of division over Iraq is not over issues of trust or integrity, though some insist on trying to translate it into that.  Each week brings a fresh attempt to get a new angle that can prove it was all a gigantic conspiracy. We have had three inquiries, including the one by Lord Hutton conducted over six months, with more openness by government than any such inquiry in history, that have affirmed there was no attempt to falsify intelligence in the dossier of September 2002, but rather that it was indeed an accurate summary of that intelligence.  45 minutes claim  We have seen one element - intelligence about some WMD being ready for use in 45 minutes - elevated into virtually the one fact that persuaded the nation into war.  This intelligence was mentioned by me once in my statement to the House of Commons on 24 September and not mentioned by me again in any debate. It was mentioned by no-one in the crucial debate on 18 March 2003.  In the period from 24 September to 29 May, the date of the BBC broadcast on it, it was raised twice in almost 40,000 written parliamentary questions in the House of Commons; and not once in almost 5,000 oral questions.  Neither was it remotely the basis for the claim that Saddam had strategic as well as battlefield WMD. That was dealt with in a different part of the dossier; and though the Iraq Survey Group have indeed not found stockpiles of weapons, they have uncovered much evidence about Saddam's programme to develop long-range strategic missiles in breach of UN rules.  Previous fears  It is said we claimed Iraq was an imminent threat to Britain and was preparing to attack us.  In fact this is what I said prior to the war on 24 September 2002: "Why now? People ask. I agree I cannot say that this month or next, even this year or next he will use his weapons."  Then, for example, in January 2003 in my press conference I said: "And I tell you honestly what my fear is, my fear is that we wake up one day and we find either that one of these dictatorial states has used weapons of mass destruction - and Iraq has done so in the past - and we get sucked into a conflict, with all the devastation that would cause; or alternatively these weapons, which are being traded right round the world at the moment, fall into the hands of these terrorist groups, these fanatics who will stop at absolutely nothing to cause death and destruction on a mass scale.  "Now that is what I have to worry about. And I understand of course why people think it is a very remote threat and it is far away and why does it bother us. Now I simply say to you, it is a matter of time unless we act and take a stand before terrorism and weapons of mass destruction come together, and I regard them as two sides of the same coin."  UN role  The truth is, as was abundantly plain in the motion before the House of Commons on 18 March, we went to war to enforce compliance with UN Resolutions.  Had we believed Iraq was an imminent direct threat to Britain, we would have taken action in September 2002; we would not have gone to the UN.  Instead, we spent October and November in the UN negotiating UN Resolution 1441. We then spent almost 4 months trying to implement it.  Actually, it is now apparent from the Survey Group that Iraq was indeed in breach of UN Resolution 1441. It did not disclose laboratories and facilities it should have; nor the teams of scientists kept together to retain their WMD including nuclear expertise; nor its continuing research relevant to chemical weapons and biological weapons.  As Dr Kay, the former head of the ISG who is now quoted as a critic of the war has said: "Iraq was in clear violation of the terms of Resolution 1441". And "I actually think this [Iraq] may be one of those cases where it was even more dangerous than we thought."  Then, most recently is the attempt to cast doubt on the attorney general's legal opinion. He said the war was lawful.  He published a statement on the legal advice. It is said this opinion is disputed. Of course it is. It was disputed in March 2003. It is today.  The lawyers continue to divide over it - with their legal opinions bearing a remarkable similarity to their political view of the war.  But let's be clear. Once this row dies down, another will take its place and then another and then another.  Diversion  All of it in the end is an elaborate smokescreen to prevent us seeing the real issue: which is not a matter of trust but of judgement. The real point is that those who disagree with the war, disagree fundamentally with the judgement that led to war.  What is more, their alternative judgement is both entirely rational and arguable. Kosovo, with ethnic cleansing of ethnic Albanians, was not a hard decision for most people; nor was Afghanistan after the shock of September 11; nor was Sierra Leone.  Iraq in March 2003 was an immensely difficult judgement. It was divisive because it was difficult. I have never disrespected those who disagreed with the decision.  Sure, some were anti-American; some against all wars. But there was a core of sensible people who faced with this decision would have gone the other way, for sensible reasons.  Their argument is one I understand totally. It is that Iraq posed no direct, immediate threat to Britain; and that Iraq's WMD, even on our own case, was not serious enough to warrant war, certainly without a specific UN resolution mandating military action. And they argue: Saddam could, in any event, be contained.  In other words, they disagreed then and disagree now fundamentally with the characterisation of the threat.  Weapons evidence  We were saying this is urgent; we have to act; the opponents of war thought it wasn't. And I accept, incidentally, that however abhorrent and foul the regime and however relevant that was for the reasons I set out before the war, for example in Glasgow in February 2003, regime change alone could not be and was not our justification for war. Our primary purpose was to enforce UN resolutions over Iraq and WMD.  Of course the opponents are boosted by the fact that though we know Saddam had WMD; we haven't found the physical evidence of them in the 11 months since the war. But in fact, everyone thought he had them. That was the basis of UN Resolution 1441.  It's just worth pointing out that the search is being conducted in a country twice the land mass of the UK, which David Kay's interim report in October 2003 noted, contains 130 ammunition storage areas, some covering an area of 50 square miles, including some 600,000 tons of artillery shells, rockets and other ordnance, of which only a small proportion have as yet been searched in the difficult security environment that exists.  Passion  But the key point is that it is the threat that is the issue.  The characterisation of the threat is where the difference lies. Here is where I feel so passionately that we are in mortal danger of mistaking the nature of the new world in which we live.  Everything about our world is changing: its economy, its technology, its culture, its way of living.  If the 20th century scripted our conventional way of thinking, the 21st century is unconventional in almost every respect.  This is true also of our security.  The threat we face is not conventional. It is a challenge of a different nature from anything the world has faced before. It is to the world's security, what globalisation is to the world's economy.  It was defined not by Iraq but by September 11th. September 11th did not create the threat Saddam posed.  But it altered crucially the balance of risk as to whether to deal with it or simply carry on, however imperfectly, trying to contain it.  Let me attempt an explanation of how my own thinking, as a political leader, has evolved during these past few years.  Already, before September 11th the world's view of the justification of military action had been changing.  The only clear case in international relations for armed intervention had been self-defence, response to aggression.  Rationale  But the notion of intervening on humanitarian grounds had been gaining currency. I set this out, following the Kosovo war, in a speech in Chicago in 1999, where I called for a doctrine of international community, where in certain clear circumstances, we do intervene, even though we are not directly threatened.  I said this was not just to correct injustice, but also because in an increasingly inter-dependent world, our self-interest was allied to the interests of others; and seldom did conflict in one region of the world not contaminate another.  We acted in Sierra Leone for similar reasons, though frankly even if that country had become run by gangsters and murderers and its democracy crushed, it would have been a long time before it impacted on us. But we were able to act to help them and we did.  Extremism fears  So, for me, before September 11th, I was already reaching for a different philosophy in international relations from a traditional one that has held sway since the treaty of Westphalia in 1648; namely that a country's internal affairs are for it and you don't interfere unless it threatens you, or breaches a treaty, or triggers an obligation of alliance.  I did not consider Iraq fitted into this philosophy, though I could see the horrible injustice done to its people by Saddam. However, I had started to become concerned about two other phenomena.  The first was the increasing amount of information about Islamic extremism and terrorism that was crossing my desk. Chechnya was blighted by it. So was Kashmir. Afghanistan was its training ground.  Some 300 people had been killed in the attacks on the USS Cole and US embassies in East Africa.  The extremism seemed remarkably well financed. It was very active. And it was driven not by a set of negotiable political demands, but by religious fanaticism.  The second was the attempts by states - some of them highly unstable and repressive - to develop nuclear weapons programmes, CW and BW materiel, and long-range missiles.  What is more, it was obvious that there was a considerable network of individuals and companies with expertise in this area, prepared to sell it.  Bush talks  All this was before September 11th. I discussed the issue of WMD with President Bush at our first meeting in Camp David in February 2001.  But it's in the nature of things that other issues intervene - I was about to fight for re-election - and though it was raised, it was a troubling spectre in the background, not something to arrest our whole attention.  President Bush told me that on September 9th 2001, he had a meeting about Iraq in the White House when he discussed "smart" sanctions, changes to the sanctions regime. There was no talk of military action.  September 11th was for me a revelation. What had seemed inchoate came together.  The point about September 11th was not its detailed planning; not its devilish execution; not even, simply, that it happened in America, on the streets of New York. All of this made it an astonishing, terrible and wicked tragedy, a barbaric murder of innocent people.  But what galvanised me was that it was a declaration of war by religious fanatics who were prepared to wage that war without limit. They killed 3000.  But if they could have killed 30,000 or 300,000 they would have rejoiced in it.  The purpose was to cause such hatred between Moslems and the West that a religious jihad became reality; and the world engulfed by it.  Pre-war persuasion  When I spoke to the House of Commons on 14 September 2001 I said: "We know, that they [the terrorists] would, if they could, go further and use chemical, biological, or even nuclear weapons of mass destruction.  "We know, also, that there are groups of people, occasionally states, who will trade the technology and capability of such weapons. It is time that this trade was exposed, disrupted, and stamped out.  "We have been warned by the events of 11 September, and we should act on the warning."  From September 11th on, I could see the threat plainly. Here were terrorists prepared to bring about Armageddon.  Here were states whose leadership cared for no-one but themselves; were often cruel and tyrannical towards their own people; and who saw WMD as a means of defending themselves against any attempt external or internal to remove them and who, in their chaotic and corrupt state, were in any event porous and irresponsible with neither the will nor capability to prevent terrorists who also hated the West, from exploiting their chaos and corruption.  Nuclear trade  I became aware of the activities of A Q Khan, former Pakistani nuclear scientist and of an organisation developing nuclear weapons technology to sell secretly to states wanting to acquire it.  I started to hear of plants to manufacture nuclear weapons equipment in Malaysia, in the Near East and Africa, companies in the Gulf and Europe to finance it; training and know-how provided - all without any or much international action to stop it.  It was a murky, dangerous trade, done with much sophistication and it was rapidly shortening the timeframe of countries like North Korea and Iran in acquiring serviceable nuclear weapons capability. I asked for more intelligence on the issue not just of terrorism but also of WMD.  The scale of it became clear. It didn't matter that the Islamic extremists often hated some of these regimes. Their mutual enmity toward the West would in the end triumph over any scruples of that nature, as we see graphically in Iraq today.  Al-Qaeda efforts  We knew that al-Qaeda sought the capability to use WMD in their attacks. Bin Laden has called it a "duty" to obtain nuclear weapons. His networks have experimented with chemicals and toxins for use in attacks.  He received advice from at least two Pakistani scientists on the design of nuclear weapons. In Afghanistan al-Qaeda trained its recruits in the use of poisons and chemicals.  An al-Qaeda terrorist ran a training camp developing these techniques. Terrorist training manuals giving step-by-step instructions for the manufacture of deadly substances such as botulinum and ricin were widely distributed in Afghanistan and elsewhere and via the internet.  Terrorists in Russia have actually deployed radiological material. The sarin attack on the Tokyo Metro showed how serious an impact even a relatively small attack can have.  The global threat to our security was clear. So was our duty: to act to eliminate it.  'No blind eye'  First we dealt with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, removing the Taliban that succoured them.  But then we had to confront the states with WMD. We had to take a stand. We had to force conformity with international obligations that for years had been breached with the world turning a blind eye.  For 12 years Saddam had defied calls to disarm. In 1998, he had effectively driven out the UN inspectors and we had bombed his military infrastructure; but we had only weakened him, not removed the threat.  Saddam alone had used CW against Iran and against his own people.  We had had an international coalition blessed by the UN in Afghanistan. I wanted the same now. President Bush agreed to go the UN route.  We secured UN Resolution 1441. Saddam had one final chance to comply fully. Compliance had to start with a full and honest declaration of WMD programmes and activities.  The truth is disarming a country, other than with its consent, is a perilous exercise. On 8 December 2002, Saddam sent his declaration. It was obviously false.  The UN inspectors were in Iraq but progress was slow and the vital cooperation of Iraqi scientists withheld. In March we went back to the UN to make a final ultimatum. We strove hard for agreement. We very nearly achieved it.  Leadership  So we came to the point of decision. Prime ministers don't have the luxury of maintaining both sides of the argument.  They can see both sides. But, ultimately, leadership is about deciding.  My view was and is that if the UN had come together and delivered a tough ultimatum to Saddam, listing clearly what he had to do, benchmarking it, he may have folded and events set in train that might just and eventually have led to his departure from power.  But the Security Council didn't agree.  Suppose at that point we had backed away. Inspectors would have stayed but only the utterly naïve would believe that following such a public climbdown by the US and its partners, Saddam would have cooperated more.  He would have strung the inspectors out and returned emboldened to his plans.  The will to act on the issue of rogue states and WMD would have been shown to be hollow. The terrorists, watching and analysing every move in our psychology as they do, would have taken heart.  All this without counting the fact that the appalling brutalisation of the Iraqi people would have continued unabated and reinforced.  Risk factor  Here is the crux. It is possible that even with all of this, nothing would have happened. Possible that Saddam would change his ambitions; possible he would develop the WMD but never use it; possible that the terrorists would never get their hands on WMD, whether from Iraq or elsewhere.  We cannot be certain. Perhaps we would have found different ways of reducing it. Perhaps this Islamic terrorism would ebb of its own accord.  But do we want to take the risk? That is the judgement. And my judgement then and now is that the risk of this new global terrorism and its interaction with states or organisations or individuals proliferating WMD, is one I simply am not prepared to run.  This is not a time to err on the side of caution; not a time to weigh the risks to an infinite balance; not a time for the cynicism of the worldly wise who favour playing it long.  Their worldly wise cynicism is actually at best naivete and at worst dereliction.  Diplomacy?  When they talk, as they do now, of diplomacy coming back into fashion in respect of Iran or North Korea or Libya, do they seriously think that diplomacy alone has brought about this change?  Since the war in Iraq, Libya has taken the courageous step of owning up not just to a nuclear weapons programme but to having chemical weapons, which are now being destroyed.  Iran is back in the reach of the IAEA. North Korea in talks with China over its WMD. The A Q Khan network is being shut down, its trade slowly but surely being eliminated.  Yet it is monstrously premature to think the threat has passed. The risk remains in the balance here and abroad.  These days decisions about it come thick and fast, and while they are not always of the same magnitude they are hardly trivial.  Let me give you an example. A short while ago, during the war, we received specific intelligence warning of a major attack on Heathrow.  To this day, we don't know if it was correct and we foiled it or if it was wrong. But we received the intelligence.  We immediately heightened the police presence. At the time it was much criticised as political hype or an attempt to frighten the public.  Actually at each stage we followed rigidly the advice of the police and Security Service. But sit in my seat. Here is the intelligence. Here is the advice. Do you ignore it?  But, of course intelligence is precisely that: intelligence. It is not hard fact. It has its limitations. On each occasion the most careful judgement has to be made taking account of everything we know and the best assessment and advice available.  But in making that judgement, would you prefer us to act, even if it turns out to be wrong? Or not to act and hope it's OK?  And suppose we don't act and the intelligence turns out to be right, how forgiving will people be?  Stability drive  And to those who think that these things are all disconnected, random acts, disparate threats with no common thread to bind them, look at what is happening in Iraq today.  The terrorists pouring into Iraq, know full well the importance of destroying not just the nascent progress of Iraq toward stability, prosperity and democracy, but of destroying our confidence, of defeating our will to persevere.  I have no doubt Iraq is better without Saddam; but no doubt either, that as a result of his removal, the dangers of the threat we face will be diminished. That is not to say the terrorists won't redouble their efforts. They will.  This war is not ended. It may only be at the end of its first phase. They are in Iraq, murdering innocent Iraqis who want to worship or join a police force that upholds the law not a brutal dictatorship; they carry on killing in Afghanistan.  They do it for a reason. The terrorists know that if Iraq and Afghanistan survive their assault, come through their travails, seize the opportunity the future offers, then those countries will stand not just as nations liberated from oppression, but as a lesson to humankind everywhere and a profound antidote to the poison of religious extremism.  That is precisely why the terrorists are trying to foment hatred and division in Iraq. They know full well, a stable democratic Iraq, under the sovereign rule of the Iraqi people, is a mortal blow to their fanaticism.  That is why our duty is to rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan as stable and democratic nations.  Human spirit  Here is the irony. For all the fighting, this threat cannot be defeated by security means alone.  Taking strong action is a necessary but insufficient condition for defeating. Its final defeat is only assured by the triumph of the values of the human spirit.  Which brings me to the final point. It may well be that under international law as presently constituted, a regime can systematically brutalise and oppress its people and there is nothing anyone can do, when dialogue, diplomacy and even sanctions fail, unless it comes within the definition of a humanitarian catastrophe (though the 300,000 remains in mass graves already found in Iraq might be thought by some to be something of a catastrophe).  This may be the law, but should it be?  We know now, if we didn't before, that our own self interest is ultimately bound up with the fate of other nations.  The doctrine of international community is no longer a vision of idealism. It is a practical recognition that just as within a country, citizens who are free, well educated and prosperous tend to be responsible, to feel solidarity with a society in which they have a stake; so do nations that are free, democratic and benefiting from economic progress, tend to be stable and solid partners in the advance of humankind.  Global rules  The best defence of our security lies in the spread of our values.  But we cannot advance these values except within a framework that recognises their universality. If it is a global threat, it needs a global response, based on global rules.  The essence of a community is common rights and responsibilities. We have obligations in relation to each other.  If we are threatened, we have a right to act. And we do not accept in a community that others have a right to oppress and brutalise their people.  We value the freedom and dignity of the human race and each individual in it.  Containment will not work in the face of the global threat that confronts us. The terrorists have no intention of being contained.  The states that proliferate or acquire WMD illegally are doing so precisely to avoid containment. Emphatically I am not saying that every situation leads to military action.  But we surely have a duty and a right to prevent the threat materialising; and we surely have a responsibility to act when a nation's people are subjected to a regime such as Saddam's.  Otherwise, we are powerless to fight the aggression and injustice which over time puts at risk our security and way of life.  UN changes?  Which brings us to how you make the rules and how you decide what is right or wrong in enforcing them. The UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights is a fine document. But it is strange the United Nations is so reluctant to enforce them.  I understand the worry the international community has over Iraq. It worries that the US and its allies will by sheer force of their military might, do whatever they want, unilaterally and without recourse to any rule-based code or doctrine.  But our worry is that if the UN - because of a political disagreement in its Councils - is paralysed, then a threat we believe is real will go unchallenged.  Britain's role  This dilemma is at the heart of many people's anguished indecision over the wisdom of our action in Iraq.  It explains the confusion of normal politics that has part of the right liberating a people from oppression and a part of the left disdaining the action that led to it.  It is partly why the conspiracy theories or claims of deceit have such purchase. How much simpler to debate those than to analyse and resolve the conundrum of our world's present state.  Britain's role is try to find a way through this: to construct a consensus behind a broad agenda of justice and security and means of enforcing it.  This agenda must be robust in tackling the security threat that this Islamic extremism poses; and fair to all peoples by promoting their human rights, wherever they are.  It means tackling poverty in Africa and justice in Palestine as well as being utterly resolute in opposition to terrorism as a way of achieving political goals. It means an entirely different, more just and more modern view of self-interest.  War reasons  It means reforming the United Nations so its Security Council represents 21st century reality; and giving the UN the capability to act effectively as well as debate.  It means getting the UN to understand that faced with the threats we have, we should do all we can to spread the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law, religious tolerance and justice for the oppressed, however painful for some nations that may be; but that at the same time, we wage war relentlessly on those who would exploit racial and religious division to bring catastrophe to the world.  But in the meantime, the threat is there and demands our attention.  That is the struggle which engages us. It is a new type of war. It will rest on intelligence to a greater degree than ever before.  It demands a difference attitude to our own interests. It forces us to act even when so many comforts seem unaffected, and the threat so far off, if not illusory.  In the end, believe your political leaders or not, as you will. But do so, at least having understood their minds. 
1 Eleven more U.S. troops die in Iraq Spain to withdraw troops 'in the shortest time possible' Monday, April 19, 2004 Posted: 0651 GMT (1451 HKT)    Story Tools  more videoVIDEO A wave of attacks killed at least 11 U.S. soldiers. premium contentPLAY VIDEO CNN's Wolf Blitzer talks to Gen. Richard Myers about mounting U.S. casualties. premium contentPLAY VIDEO Batavia, Ohio, rallies in support of Pfc. Keith Matthew Maupin premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED Story:  Jesse Jackson willing to negotiate for hostages Gallery: Captive U.S. soldier List:  Latest on hostages in Iraq CNN Access:  Hostage's wife has no word from Iraq Interactive: Iraq troop extension Special Report:  U.S. deaths in Iraq Gallery: Grieving families Gallery: Remembering loved ones • Pope calls for hostage release • Czech journalist describes captivity • Italian hostage executed • Contractors recall attack, escape • U.S. blasts Arabic networks SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Iraq  Baghdad  Diplomacy  Armed Conflict  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? QUICKVOTE Should Spain pull its troops out of Iraq? Yes, it's an election promise No, it harms the coalition VIEW RESULTS BAGHDAD, Iraq (CNN) -- The U.S. military added 11 more troops to the war's death roster Sunday, bringing to 700 the number of American service members killed since March of last year, 504 of them in combat.  The latest fighting included a fierce engagement Saturday between Marines and insurgents near Iraq's border with Syria.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, meanwhile, said he will withdraw Spanish troops from Iraq "in the shortest time possible." (Full story)  Zapatero, who was sworn into office Saturday, previously vowed to bring home Spain's 1,400 troops if the United Nations did not have "political and military control" in Iraq by June 30.  U.S. civilian administrator L. Paul Bremer said Sunday that the recent heavy fighting underscored the need for international forces to remain in the country past the June 30 handover of sovereignty to an interim government.  "Events of the past two weeks show that Iraq still faces security threats and needs outside help to deal with them," Bremer said in a statement.  "Early this month, the foes of democracy overran Iraqi police stations and seized public buildings in several parts of the country. Iraqi forces were unable to stop them.  "It is clear that Iraqi forces will not be able, on their own, to deal with these threats by June 30 when an Iraqi government assumes sovereignty," Bremer's statement went on to say.  "Instead, Iraq and troops from many countries, including the United States, will be partners in providing the security Iraqis need."  The U.S. casualties announced Sunday included five Marines killed when a patrol came under attack by insurgents with machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades near the town of Husaybah close to the Syrian border, the Marines said.  Reinforcements, backed by helicopters, also came under fire by insurgents operating from near Husaybah's former Baath Party headquarters, the military said.  The fighting continued through the night, the Marines said, pitting their troops against 120 to 150 insurgents. The Marines estimated 25 to 30 insurgents were killed in the attack.  They also reported seeing women and children surrounding mortar positions but could not tell if they were there voluntarily. They said the insurgents fired at medical helicopters carrying wounded Marines from the battlefield.  Elsewhere, three U.S. soldiers were killed Saturday when their 1st Armored Division convoy was ambushed near the southern Iraqi town of Diwaniyah.  Three Iraqi civilians and a member of radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's militia, the Mehdi Army, were also killed, Iraqi police in Diwaniyah said.  A ninth American, assigned to the 1st Marine Expeditionary Unit, was killed Saturday in fighting west of Baghdad in the violent Anbar province.  Officials announced two more deaths Sunday. A U.S. soldier was killed and two others injured Saturday when their tank rolled over in north Baghdad, and another soldier died of wounds received Saturday in a roadside bombing.  Najaf, Fallujah relatively calm Two Iraqi cities that have been centers of fighting between insurgents and U.S.-led coalition troops -- Najaf and Fallujah -- were relatively calm Sunday.  No talks were scheduled about the situation in Fallujah, the city west of Baghdad where fierce fighting dominated the first two weeks of April.  Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Sunday that U.S. forces in Fallujah faced the "worst of the worst" of Iraqi insurgents, who he said use women and children as shields.  Myers said the military sees a "pretty good coordination" in Fallujah between former elements of the Saddam Hussein regime and terrorists possibly coordinated by fugitive al Qaeda suspect Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.  "We don't know for sure that he's there, but he's been there before," Myers said on CNN's "Late Edition."  Coalition troops remained deployed outside the Shiite Muslim holy city of Najaf in south-central Iraq, where al-Sadr and his Mehdi Army were holed up.  Minor clashes were reported elsewhere in southern Iraq between al-Sadr supporters and other coalition forces.  Al-Sadr's supporters have been fighting allied troops since the coalition closed their newspaper and arrested one of his deputies in connection with the killing of a rival cleric last year.  The coalition is seeking to capture or kill al-Sadr, who is wanted for questioning in the same killing, but it is feared that military action could spark further violence.  Several parties, including Iranians, are trying to negotiate with al-Sadr.  Myers said al-Sadr "has been marginalized" by other Shiite clerics and that he saw no signs of Sunnis and Shiites uniting against the coalition.  "Right now he has been so marginalized there is not a city under his control," Myers said. "His militia has either melted away, or been either killed or captured."  Al-Sadr's spokesman, Sheikh Qais al-Khazaaly, said Sunday that the cleric was "willing to die in Najaf as his father did."  Al-Sadr's father, Grand Ayatollah Muhammed al-Sadr, and his two older brothers were assassinated by the Saddam regime in 1999.  But, Myers said, al-Sadr's marginalization kept him at bay.  "Why [go in to Najaf] when you don't have to?" he said. "I think Sadr has shown by his statements that he is not only anti-coalition, he is anti-Iraqi. He does not want progress in Iraq."  Myers also said the U.S. authorities were not concerned that Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani -- the most senior Shiite cleric in Iraq -- had rejected the violence of the insurgents as well as that of the coalition.  "He is his own thinker," Myers said. "He is for progress [and] certainly doesn't want a theocracy."  Pope John Paul II called on Iraqi kidnappers Sunday to show "humanity" and free their hostages, including U.S. Army Pfc. Keith Matthew Maupin, 20, a reservist from Batavia, Ohio. (Full story)  New Iraqi military leaders chosen Amid concerns that Iraq's security forces were inadequate to the task of securing the country, defense minister Ali Allawi announced newly appointed military leaders in his ministry and said the new Iraqi military would eventually number 200,000.  "Iraqi forces will be defensive in nature, composed of volunteers only," Allawi said in Baghdad. "The military will serve their people without religious or sectarian or tribal or political discrimination."  Allawi also said he was confident Iraqi forces would be able to handle "the enemies of Iraq [who] are carrying out aggressive acts to get Iraq back to the old days."  The coalition announced that the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps had captured a suspected anticoalition leader near the northern city of Tikrit early Sunday.  Hakeem Badour Khalaf, the coalition said, has been implicated in the deaths or injuries of at least three people, including two U.S. soldiers and an interpreter. 
1 Soros, groups target Bush President's campaign cites 'liberal special interests' Friday, December 26, 2003 Posted: 2032 GMT ( 4:32 AM HKT)  George Soros has pledged millions to independent groups, George Soros has pledged millions to independent groups, "to ensure that the money spent on trying to re-elect President Bush doesn't overwhelm the process." Story Tools THE MORNING GRIND  CNN's exclusive daily wrap on all things political, will return January 5. RELATED Kerry set to loan campaign $6 million Vermont: Dean records can stay sealed From Judy's Desk: The '04 Dems weigh in on 'Code Orange' Robert Novak: The cardinal rules • America Coming Together external link • Center for Public Integrity external link • Club for Growth external link • MoveOn.org external link • Soros Foundations Network external link more videoVIDEO CNN's Bill Schneider on Howard Dean's challenge to the Democratic Party. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Candy Crowley on the importance of the Iowa caucuses. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Jeff Greenfield on John Kerry's uphill battle. premium content PLAY VIDEO SPECIAL REPORT  • The Candidates: Bush | Kerry • The Issues • The Money • The Polls • Timeline • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS George Soros  George W. Bush  Fund Raising  Elections  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- President Bush's most-feared political opponents for now may not be Democratic presidential candidates, but a billionaire financier and anti-Bush advocacy groups with big-spending plans.  "Liberal special interests, led by billionaire currency trader George Soros, are raising millions in soft, unregulated money to defeat President Bush," the Bush campaign says in an Internet posting.  Bush has already raised more than $110 million for his primary campaign, in which he has no challenger, far outstripping any Democratic rival.  Campaign spokesman Scott Stanzel said anti-Bush groups threaten to spend as much as $400 million, justifying the Bush primary-season goal of raising a record $170 million, largely through a network of major supporters who funnel donations to the campaign.  But campaign finance experts say there is little chance of Bush being outspent.  "The Bush campaign is raising money hand-over-fist. He has the aura of the incumbency and the power of the presidency. He's in the catbird seat," said Celia Wexler, research director of the Common Cause good-government group.  Along with Soros, the Hungarian-born financier who has pledged $12.5 million to ensure "we can write off the Bush doctrine as a temporary aberration," another chief target of Republican ire are independent political groups such as the Internet-based MoveOn.org.  The group has raised nearly $7 million to run ads attacking Bush, and launched an anti-Bush television-commercial contest which has drawn more than 1,000 submissions from the public.  Groups including MoveOn.org are banned from coordinating activities with any party or candidate. But they have gained prominence under last year's McCain-Feingold campaign finance act which ended unregulated "soft money" donations. Democrats had relied on soft money to help claw back a Republican advantage in individual donations. (Supreme Court upholds 'soft money' ban)  "They have the potential to do an incredible amount of damage," said Scott Reed, a Republican consultant with close ties to the White House. He said the independent groups could run "over the top" ads attacking Bush with political impunity, and there was little financial accountability.  He suggested Soros may be seeking "payback" for the Iraq war, reflecting business interests in France and Germany.  Independent groups Soros pledged his money to two independent political groups -- MoveOn.org and America Coming Together. "My contributions help to ensure that the money spent on trying to re-elect President Bush doesn't overwhelm the process," he said in a Washington Post opinion piece earlier this month.  Soros -- whose new book on the subject is "The Bubble of American Supremacy" -- said he was "deeply concerned with the direction in which the Bush administration is taking the United States and the world."  The Bush team's fund-raising appeals sharply criticize such efforts and accuse the independent groups of raising money overseas. "To beat these billionaire liberals and the flood of foreign money they're encouraging, we need your help today," an e-mail solicitation read.  MoveOn.org founder Wes Boyd said the groups accepts no foreign donations and defended the group's methods. He said its donors have no expectation of access to a successful candidate, unlike those who donate directly to a campaign. "There's no strings attached," he said.  The Center for Public Integrity government watchdog group said independent committees from across the political spectrum have raised $32 million this year, although the Soros-backed America Coming Together had yet to report.  Wexler said it was too early to judge how effective the groups would be. The Federal Election Commission is expected to issue guidelines in February on their political activity.  Conservatives have also used independent political groups and are doing so again this year. "They're playing catch-up ball," after waiting for the Supreme Court's December ruling upholding the campaign finance reform legislation, Reed said.  The conservative Club for Growth has run ads in Iowa and New Hampshire, where the nation's first major nominating contests take place, attacking front-running Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean. 
1 Should the draft be reinstated? Monday, December 29, 2003 Posted: 1917 GMT ( 3:17 AM HKT)  Story Tools MORE FROM TIME • Secretary of war • Bring back the draft? • Godfather of the Iraq war • A deal with Libya With U.S. forces stretched thin and many reservists on full-time duty, some urge a draft for reasons of fairness and practicality. Opponents say it's unnecessary and dangerous  CHARLES RANGEL  Democratic Congressman from New York and Korean War vet  Staying the course in Iraq means increasing our troop strength, and, not surprisingly, recruitment and re-enlistment levels are down. But proposed enlistment bonuses and other economic incentives will not make the military any more attractive to upper-middle-class young people. Increasingly we will be a nation in which the poor fight our wars while the affluent stay home.  To correct the disparity among those who serve, South Carolina Senator Fritz Hollings and I have proposed a new draft. All men and women ages 18 to 26 would be eligible for induction once they have completed high school. Those not needed in the military would perform civilian service. Enacting our plan would democratize our armed forces and return to the "citizen soldier" ideal that has served our nation so well.  As a veteran, I strongly believe that fighting for our country must be fairly shared by all racial and economic groups. Nobody wants to go to war, but the burden of service cannot fall only on volunteers who, no matter how patriotic, are attracted to the military for financial reasons. We cannot continue to pretend it is fair that one segment of society makes all the sacrifices.  DOUG BANDOW  Former special assistant to President Reagan, now a senior fellow at the Cato Institute  America deploys the most powerful military on earth because its soldiers freely choose to serve. Today's military is picky. In 2003 more than 9 of 10 enlistees had a high school diploma. The military takes virtually no one who doesn't score in the top three of five categories of the Armed Forces Qualification Test. Equally important, the all-volunteer force (avf) is staffed by soldiers who want to be there. Draft advocates want "citizen soldiers." But 4 million young people turn 18 every year, while the military inducted 185,000 recruits in 2003. A system that took just 5% of those eligible would be highly arbitrary.  The worst lie told by conscription advocates about the avf is that it is an underclass military. Overrepresentation of blacks is modest; Hispanics are actually underrepresented. While there may be few sons and daughters of Wall Street in uniform, the military is an overwhelmingly middle-class force. The most obvious reason to maintain the avf is practical: it's the best way to raise the world's finest military. What sets American society apart from totalitarian hellholes like Saddam Hussein's Iraq is its dedication to individual liberty. Conscription sacrifices the very values we are supposed to be defending.  CHARLES MOSKOS  Professor of sociology at Northwestern University and a former draftee  Our country is facing new kinds of threats and needs a new kind of draft. Even before the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, our military was severely overstretched in fulfilling its missions. But more important, we have done nothing serious about homeland defense in the war against terrorism. We need guards for our nuclear power plants, dams and public facilities. We have done little to create the necessary border patrollers, customs agents and cargo-ship inspectors. Short-term draftees, under professional supervision, could perform these duties admirably. It takes less than four months to train a military police officer—precisely the kind of role most needed in peacekeeping missions and guard duties. This would free up professional soldiers, and it would stop the unprecedented activation of reservists. Their multiple tours have led to demoralization and impending recruitment shortfalls.  We must institute a three-tiered draft system in America, with 15-to-24-month tours of duty for citizens ages 18 to 26. In the new-style draft, conscripts could serve in the military, in homeland security or in a civilian-service program like AmeriCorps—and there is no reason women could not be drafted for the latter categories.  ROBERT SCALES JR.  Retired general, former commandant of the Army War College and historian  A return to the draft is a very bad idea whose time passed with the world wars, Korea and Vietnam. These wars were tragically wasteful because in large measure they were fought with drafted soldiers.  Drafted soldiers are far more likely to die in combat than long-service professionals. Military leaders know from painful experience that it takes years to produce a fully competent combat soldier. They also know that older soldiers live longer in combat. Drafting teenagers and committing them to combat within only a year of enlistment will create an Army of amateurs. Our Army in particular has a sad history of committing to battle men who are too young and inexperienced to have much hope of surviving against a hardened and skillful enemy.  Drafted units can be kept together for only a short time and invariably march to war as random collections of strangers. Our soldiers performed so superbly in Iraq because they were seasoned. Good soldiers, like good wine, can be produced only with careful cultivation and patient aging. Unfortunately, amateur armies learn to fight only by fighting. Inevitably, the cost of that education is too horrific for the American people to bear.  JAMES INHOFE  Republican Senator from Oklahoma  I think I'm the only member of the Senate Armed Services Committee who would reinstate the draft. There are huge social benefits that come from it. I can assure you I would not be in the U.S. Senate today if I had not gone through the draft. When I look at the problems of some of our kids in America nowadays and then I go visit the troops, I see what a great benefit it is to give people the opportunity to serve their country.  I was drafted into the Army in January 1957 and served two years as an enlisted man. I gained a new outlook on life through the rigors of basic training. The military can have a more intense influence on soldiers when they are drafted and have no choice. I developed a sense of patriotism through the experience of serving my country. I'm not on a crusade, but I think today's youth could use more of that type of discipline.  LOUIS CALDERA  Former Secretary of the Army, 1998-2001, now president of the University of New Mexico  Talk about reinstating the draft is more about nostalgia for a time when military service was perceived to be a near universal and often beneficial rite of passage for young men in our country than it is about keeping our military at full strength. Given the success of the all-volunteer force in manning today's smaller and more highly skilled military, a return to a large, general draft is neither necessary nor desirable for maintaining U.S. military effectiveness.  Worries about whether the military can attract enough recruits are unfounded. Unless the U.S. is going to prohibit anyone from volunteering or being recruited and only swear in draftees, the number of slots that would need to be filled by a draft would be very small indeed. How fair would any draft be that asked only a few thousand high school graduates out of the millions of eligible men and women to serve each year? Attempts to reinstate the draft could tear the nation apart for zero gain—and possibly a net degradation in military effectiveness.  Instead of honoring the diverse Americans serving in the ranks today, draft supporters devalue their patriotism and commitment. They fail to acknowledge that today's all-volunteer military recruits only motivated, trainable people who, by definition, have other options but who choose to stay in the military because they find satisfaction in serving their country. What draft supporters should be asking is, How can we challenge every young American to ask "Whose responsibility is it to serve if not mine?" 
1 Spain plans quick pullout of Iraq By CNN Madrid Bureau Chief Al Goodman Monday, April 19, 2004 Posted: 0906 GMT (1706 HKT)    Story Tools  more videoVIDEO CNN's Al Goodman on the Spanish government's plan to pull its troops from Iraq. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED Story:  Jesse Jackson willing to negotiate for hostages List:  Latest on hostages in Iraq Interactive: Iraq troop extension Special Report:  U.S. deaths in Iraq • Pope calls for hostage release • Czech journalist describes captivity • Italian hostage executed • Contractors recall attack, escape SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Iraq  Spain  United Nations  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? QUICKVOTE Should Spain pull its troops out of Iraq? Yes, it's an election promise No, it harms the coalition VIEW RESULTS MADRID, Spain (CNN) -- Spain's 1,400 troops in Iraq will be withdrawn "in the shortest possible time," the country's new prime minister said Sunday.  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said his defense minister-designate, Jose Bono, was ordered to make the arrangements as soon as he had been sworn into office with the rest of the new Cabinet on Sunday.  Zapatero had previously said that he would bring Spanish troops home by June 30 unless the United Nations assumed political and military control in Iraq.  Zapatero said there were "no apparent indications" that there would be a U.N. resolution meeting his requirements by the end of June.  The announcement came a day after Zapatero assumed office from Jose Maria Aznar, who supported the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq last year.  "I gave the order to do everything necessary to bring the Spanish troops stationed in Iraq home in the shortest time possible and with the greatest security guarantees," Zapatero said Sunday in a statement broadcast on national television.  The Spanish contingent is based near the Iraqi city of Najaf, where an uprising led by Shiite Muslim cleric Muqtada al-Sadr began two weeks ago. They are part of a Polish-led multinational brigade based in southern Iraq.  The decision to pull them out of the country was Zapatero's first since taking power, having won an upset victory over Aznar's conservative Popular Party in last month's parliamentary elections.  It is an abrupt reversal of Aznar's policy, which had been to stand firmly by the Bush administration in the U.S.-led war in Iraq.  The 43-year-old prime minister was elected just three days after the deadly March 11 Madrid train bombings that killed 190 people and wounded 1,800 -- attacks blamed on Islamic terrorists.  The al Qaeda terrorist network had threatened Spain publicly for its support of the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq, and Spain's National Court has charged 18 people, including 14 Moroccans, in the bombings.  In Washington, the chairman of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee said Zapatero "jumped the gun" by not waiting to see what steps the United States and the United Nations will take in coming weeks.  "I hope al Qaeda does not misinterpret this, and I hope it's temporary and the Spaniards will be back," Sen. John Warner, R-Virginia, told CNN.  "If they are not willing to stay in Iraq, they could prove that they're still with us in the war on terrorism by sending those Spanish troops to Afghanistan. We need their help there."  White House spokesman Ken Lisaius said: "We will work with our coalition partners in Iraq and the Spanish government, and we expect they will implement their decision in a coordinated, responsible and orderly manner."  Zapatero said Spain would continue to participate in other international peace and security missions.  Spain has 125 troops in Afghanistan, and Zapatero's aides have said he is willing to double that number. He said Spain continues to support the democratic reconstruction of Iraq and will work with the United Nations and European Union toward that end.  He said those measures would be in accord with international law -- an apparent reference to his oft-stated position that the U.S.-led war was not.  Zapatero's comments came in a statement from the prime minister's official residence and office, his first such broadcast as prime minister. He took no questions from reporters.  In other Iraq developments, U.S. troop deaths in Iraq reached 700, with 504 killed in combat, on Sunday as the military added 11 American casualties to the war's death toll. (Full story)  Pope John Paul II called on Iraqi kidnappers Sunday to show "humanity" and free their hostages, including U.S. Army Pfc. Keith Matthew Maupin, 20, a reservist from Batavia, Ohio. 
1 U.S. officer fined for harsh interrogation tactics Saturday, December 13, 2003 Posted: 1116 GMT ( 7:16 PM HKT)  West, right, was fined $5,000 and will be reassigned while he awaits retirement. West, right, was fined $5,000 and will be reassigned while he awaits retirement. Story Tools more videoVIDEO President Bush defends his exclusions on contracts to rebuild Iraq. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Alphonso Van Marsh on military prosecutors's charges of illegal methods in interrogation of an Iraqi detainee. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Chris Huntington on critics' charges that Halliburton is gouging taxpayers for gas transport to Iraq. premium content PLAY VIDEO RELATED Human Rights Watch: Civilian deaths avoidable Bush defends contract exclusions Special Report: U.S. and coalition fatalities • U.S. faces contracts backlash • U.S. Defense Department: Determinations on reconstruction contracts  (FindLaw, PDF)external link • Bush hears Iraqi symphony • Anger over Iraq contracts list • Gallery: Scenes of conflict in Iraq SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Military  Crime, Law and Justice  Iraq  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? TIKRIT, Iraq (CNN) -- The commanding general of the 4th Infantry Division on Friday accepted a U.S. military investigator's recommendation and ordered administrative action against Lt. Col. Allen West, who was accused of using improper methods to force information out of an Iraqi detainee.  Following a military hearing, West was fined $5,000 over two months, according to West's civillian attorney, Neal Puckett.  The punishment does not affect West's eligibility for retirement and pension, Puckett said in a statement.  West, 42, will be assigned to the rear detachment of the 4th Infantry Division awaiting the processing of his retirement request, the statement said.  Maj. Gen. Raymond Odierno, the 4th Infantry's top general in Tikrit, could have rejected the recommendation and ordered a court martial. If he were to be found guilty at a court martial of the two articles against him, West could have faced 11 years in prison, a military prosecutor told CNN.  The case stems from an incident August 20 at a military base in Taji, just north of Baghdad, when West was interrogating an Iraqi policeman, who was believed to have information about a plot to assassinate West with an ambush on a U.S. convoy.  In testimony at an Article 32 hearing -- the military's version of a grand jury or preliminary hearing -- West said the policeman, Yahya Jhrodi Hamoody, was not cooperating with interrogators, so he watched four of his soldiers from the 220th Field Artillery Battalion beat the detainee on the head and body.  West said he also threatened to kill Hamoody. Military prosecutors say West followed up on that threat by taking the suspect outside, put him on the ground near a weapons clearing barrel and fired his 9 mm pistol into the barrel.  Apparently not knowing where West's gun was aimed, Hamoody cracked and gave information about the planned ambush on West's convoy, thwarting the attack.  West said there were no further ambushes on U.S. forces in Taji until he was relieved of his leadership post on October 4.  "I know the method I used was not right, but I wanted to take care of my soldiers," West testified to a military courtroom of observers and some teary-eyed troops formerly under his command.  Asked if he would have act differently if under similar circumstances again, West testified, "If it's about the lives of my soldiers at stake, I'd go through hell with a gasoline can."  Puckett argued that because West is always accompanied by U.S. troops that he acted to save American lives.  But while West's supporters call him a hero, military prosecutors said his actions amounted to torture and violated articles 128 and 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.  Prosecutor Capt. Magdalena Pezytulska said West should be tried for assault and for communicating a threat. "This is a case about a man who lost his temper," she argued. "There are consequences for [West's] actions."  When West testified that he had "no malice toward Hamoody" and that he "just wanted information," Pezytulska presented a document of West's typed statement following the August incident. She asked him to read his own written words to the court: "In my anger, I couldn't remember how many shots were fired."  After nearly 20 years of military service, West plans to move his family from Texas to Florida, where he said he hopes to start a new life. 
1 Iraq's 'Sunni Triangle' scene of new deadly attacks Deaths of 2 U.S. soldiers among casualties in restive region Thursday, January 22, 2004 Posted: 1902 GMT ( 3:02 AM HKT)  The mother and daughter of a woman killed near Fallujah grieve at her gravesite in Baghdad on Thursday. The mother and daughter of a woman killed near Fallujah grieve at her gravesite in Baghdad on Thursday. Story Tools more videoVIDEO Three deadly attacks in Iraq's 'Sunni Triangle' region. premium content PLAY VIDEO U.S. Army weighs proposal to limit the call-up of reservists to once every four or five years. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Karl Penhaul on the U.S. hunt for insurgents in Iraq's 'Sunni Triangle.' premium content PLAY VIDEO RELATED America's 'Kenya cowboy' in Iraq Special Report: U.S. and coalition fatalities • Shiites want Saddam executed • Blair: 'No doubt' Iraq had WMD SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Follow the news that matters to you. Create your own alert to be notified on topics you're interested in.  Or, visit Popular Alerts for suggestions.  Manage alerts | What is this? BAGHDAD, Iraq (CNN) -- Insurgents in Iraq's volatile "Sunni Triangle" launched three deadly attacks during a 24-hour period, killing two U.S. soldiers, three Iraqi police officers and four civilians.  The Sunni Triangle is Iraq's most volatile region, an area north and west of Baghdad that is a hotbed of opposition to the U.S.-led coalition and scene of political instability.  In the most recent attack, three Iraqi police officers and a civilian were killed Thursday at a highway checkpoint between the central cities of Fallujah and Ramadi, an Iraq police official said.  Suspected insurgents in two pickups with medium to heavy machine guns opened fire on the police checkpoint, said Maj. Walid Jalal, an official with the Iraqi highway patrol force based in Fallujah.  A grenade was thrown at a police vehicle parked at the checkpoint, Jalal said. Another police officer was wounded in the attack, he said.  In other violence, a mortar and rocket attack on a U.S. military base north of Baghdad killed two American soldiers and wounded four others Wednesday night, U.S. military sources said Thursday.  Three of the wounded received treatment and returned to duty. The fourth, who was critically wounded, is hospitalized.  A mortar round directly hit the forward operating base near Baqubah, said Maj. Josslyn Aberle of the 4th Infantry Division. Aberle said U.S. forces launched a counterattack but the fate of the attackers is unknown.  The number of U.S. troops killed in the Iraq war is 504, with 349 fatalities in hostile circumstances.  Also near Fallujah, anti-coalition insurgents on Wednesday fired on and killed three Iraqi female laundry workers in a minivan, U.S. military sources said Thursday.  The attack took place as the van carried nine people to work at a forward operating base.  Witnesses said they saw passengers in a red car shoot at the van. Preliminary reports said at least two others may have been wounded in the attack, including the van's driver.  "This shows a certain type of desperation, if not coldheartedness," said Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt, discussing the workers' deaths, " ... that anti-coalition elements would have the audacity and temerity to go attack women as they were going to work to provide for their families."  WMD details likely 'years away' The chairman of the U.S. House Intelligence Committee said it could take years before investigators are able to uncover the details of Iraq's unconventional weapons programs under Saddam Hussein.  "Every day is a new day for the intelligence people," said U.S. Rep. Porter Goss, R-Florida. "I would say that we are probably a couple of years away from getting through all the material and talking to all the people we need to talk to about exactly what was going on."  The CIA's Iraq Survey Group under David Kay continues to search for weapons of mass destruction and evidence that Saddam concealed such programs from the international community.  Last year, the Bush administration said the threat of weapons of mass destruction was a key reason in its decision to launch an invasion of Iraq in March.  Critics of the administration have argued that Iraq did not pose an immediate threat and question why no weapons of mass destruction have been found.  Meanwhile, Charles Duelfer, a former U.N. arms inspector in Iraq, is likely to replace Kay, according to a U.S. official, who said an announcement should come in a few days.  Council member: Compromise possible on elections A Shiite Muslim member of the Iraqi Governing Council said Thursday that coalition officials are working with a top cleric to solve a dispute on how to select an Iraqi transitional legislature.  A possible compromise could include delaying the political handover process to Iraqis and holding direct elections later this year, said Mowaffak al-Rubaie of the U.S.-appointed council.  Rubaie said Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani wants to develop the most feasible electoral process possible. Sistani has been pushing for direct elections instead of the U.S.-backed caucuses for a transitional national assembly before July 1. The United States is to hand over political control to Iraqis by that date.  "Confrontation is not a choice," Rubaie said. "Failure of democracy is not a choice. We have to get this successful. We have to get democracy and elections and ballot boxes in Iraq."  Shiites represent about 60 percent of the Iraqi population, which would likely give them an advantage over groups in direct elections. There have been demonstrations this month in Iraqi cities in support of Sistani's position. 
1 Japan in historic Iraq deployment Monday, January 19, 2004 Posted: 2131 GMT ( 5:31 AM HKT)  Japanese troops A convoy of Japanese Self Defense forces heads for the Iraq border. Story Tools more videoVIDEO Japanese troops cross from Kuwait into Iraq, marking a shift in foreign policy. premium content PLAY VIDEO CNN's Sheila MacVicar on the Baghdad suicide bombing that killed at least 23 people. premium content PLAY VIDEO Some of the bomb victims get treatment at a Baghdad hospital. premium content PLAY VIDEO RELATED Gallery: Powerful blast rocks Baghdad • Danish army: Iraqi shells WMD-free • Bomb survivors bloodied, deafened • Bremer: 'Senseless act of violence' SPECIAL REPORT  • Interactive: Who's who in Iraq • Interactive: Sectarian divide • Timeline: Bloodiest days for civilians • Coalition Casualties • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Follow the news that matters to you. Create your own alert to be notified on topics you're interested in.  Or, visit Popular Alerts for suggestions.  Manage alerts | What is this? IRAQ/KUWAIT BORDER (Reuters) -- Japanese troops have entered Iraq from Kuwait to begin Japan's most controversial and risky deployment since World War II.  An advance party of soldiers that will prepare the ground for the likely deployment of about 1,000 troops crossed the border at around 12:50 p.m. (0950 GMT) Monday in a convoy of about 12 jeeps and military vehicles.  The dispatch marks a historic shift away from Japan's purely defensive postwar security policy and poses a huge political risk for Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, whose government could be rocked if, as many expect, casualties occur.  Japanese public opinion is divided over Koizumi's decision to send troops to Iraq but he defended the dispatch in a speech prepared for the opening of a new session of parliament.  "We would not be meeting our responsibilities as a member of the international community if we were to leave the contribution of personnel to other countries because of the possible danger," Koizumi said.  The troops will be based in the mainly Shi'ite southern city of Samawa, where they will conduct reconstruction and humanitarian operations.  If Defence Minister Shigeru Ishiba judges the area safe after team members report back, he will likely order the main body of troops to set off from late January.  A law enacted last July allows the troop dispatch, but in line with Japan's pacifist constitution, limits the military's activity to "non-combat zones," a murky concept in Iraq, which continues to see daily attacks on occupying troops.  Security was tight in Tokyo after media reports said late last year al Qaeda had warned Japan it would attack the heart of the capital as soon as Japanese troops set foot in Iraq.  Controversy in Japan About 48 percent of respondents to a weekend poll by Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun said they opposed the dispatch, down from 55 percent in the previous poll in December. About 40 percent said they supported it, up from 34 percent.  A similar poll conducted by Kyodo news agency found 51.6 percent against and 42.8 percent in favor.  While the deployment -- which critics say violates the pacifist constitution -- has divided public opinion in Japan, it has generated huge anticipation in Samawa, a mainly Shi'ite town 300 km (175 miles) south of Baghdad.  The promise that the Japanese are coming has raised hopes of jobs for all.  "The Japanese will bring jobs for everybody -- good jobs," said Ali Khadim, a student. Unemployment is seen as the biggest problem in Samawa with estimates that up to half the men in the town are out of work.  Earlier this month, two people were killed in violent protests over a lack of jobs. But the town has been remarkably quiet since the end of the war in April, said the commander of the Dutch military contingent responsible for security in area.  "If you look at the number of incidents, it's one of the quietest areas," said Lieutenant-Colonel Richard Opelaar who heads a force of just over 1,000 Dutch troops.  There have been no casualties among his force since it deployed six months ago, he said.  But there are concerns that the Japanese troops, who are prevented from engaging in combat operations and can only use weapons in self-defence, may become a target for insurgents.  Monday's convoy was guarded front and back by Dutch armored personnel carriers.  No member of Japan's military has fired a shot in combat or been killed in an overseas mission since World War II although Japanese forces have taken part in United Nations operations since a 1992 law made that possible. 
1 Kennedy: 'Iraq is George Bush's Vietnam' Bush official, GOP respond sharply to senator's criticism From Brad Wright and Jennifer Yuille CNN Washington Bureau Tuesday, April 6, 2004 Posted: 1817 GMT (0217 HKT)    Story Tools  ON CNN TV  Watch "Wolf Blitzer Reports" at 5 p.m. ET for a debate on Sen. Ted Kennedy's assertion that Iraq is "Bush's Vietnam." Then DNC chief Terry McAuliffe is a guest on "Lou Dobbs Tonight" at 6 p.m. ET. And Bush adviser Karen Hughes talks about her perspective on "Larry King Live" at 9 p.m. ET. THE MORNING GRIND Pre-ttack:  Team Bush blasts Kerry's economic speech more videoVIDEO CNN's Joe Johns on Sen. Ted Kennedy's attack on President Bush. premium contentPLAY VIDEO RELATED Bush welcomes 'sharing information' with 9/11 panel Democrats, Kerry camp report robust fund raising • CNN/Money: U.S. job growth up • Rice to testify Thursday SPECIAL REPORT  • The Candidates: Bush | Kerry • The Issues • The Money • The Polls • Timeline • Special Report YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS Edward Kennedy  George W. Bush  Vietnam  Iraq  or Create your own  Manage alerts | What is this? WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Sen. Edward Kennedy launched a blistering election-year attack on the Bush administration's candor and honesty Monday, saying President Bush has created "the largest credibility gap since Richard Nixon."  The Massachusetts Democrat said that Iraq was never a threat to the United States and that Bush took the country to war under false pretenses, giving al Qaeda two years to regroup and plant terrorist cells throughout the world.  "Iraq is George Bush's Vietnam," Kennedy said at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank.  Responding to the criticism, Bush campaign spokesman Terry Holt called the veteran lawmaker the "lead political hatchet man" for Sen. John Kerry's campaign, adding that if it had been up to Kennedy, "Saddam Hussein would not be in prison but would still be in power."  A Bush campaign official called the comparison between Bush and Nixon "bizarre" and said it would only resonate with the "extreme left."  Kennedy's comments also drew a strong rebuke from Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky, who took to the Senate floor to denounce them as "vicious" and "outrageous."  Kennedy also said that "truth is the first casualty of policy" in the Bush administration.  "This is the pattern and the record of the Bush administration [on] Iraq, jobs, Medicare, schools, issue after issue -- mislead, deceive, make up the needed facts, smear the character of any critics," he said. "Again and again, we see this cynical, despicable strategy playing out."  Kennedy also said recent statements by former White House counterterrorism adviser Richard Clarke showed the administration's "inattention to the grave and gathering threat of terrorism before 9/11 and the president's preoccupation with Iraq."  "This misguided war in Iraq has distracted us from the real war we must win and made that war harder to win, because even as we combat terror, it has left America more and more isolated in the world," Kennedy said.  McConnell said Kennedy's remarks would be seen in Baghdad, "where those who are fighting Americans on the street can view them."  "The only one responsible for the attack on America is al Qaeda," McConnell said. "We need to focus on rooting out global terrorism by fighting the terrorists, not each other."  The Bush administration has said more than 70 percent of al Qaeda's leadership has been killed or captured and that the terrorist network is on the run.  Deception on Medicare cited In his assault on the Bush administration's credibility, Kennedy also said the White House deliberately misled Congress about the true cost of the Medicare prescription drug bill.  "On Jan. 29, seven weeks after the bill was signed into law, the administration finally admitted that its true estimate of the cost would be $534 billion over the next 10 years -- $134 billion higher than the cost Congress was given when it approved the proposal," he said.  Rick Foster, chief actuary for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, has said that then-agency chief Thomas Scully threatened his job if he answered questions from congressional Democrats about the cost of the bill before a series of key votes last summer. Scully, who has since left the agency, denied that he threatened to fire Foster. The Department of Health and Human Services has launched an internal investigation.  Kennedy said concealment of the figures shows the administration has "no scruples."  Kennedy also criticized Bush for underfunding education programs, including the No Child Left Behind Act, an education reform measure that the president pushed through Congress with Kennedy's help.  "We called the law the No Child Left Behind Act because we meant just what it said -- no child means no child," he said. "The tragedy is that these long overdue reforms are finally in place, but the funds are not."  Responding to the criticisms on Medicare and education, Holt said that while Kennedy worked with the Bush administration on these issues, "it's a whole new game" now that Kerry is the presumptive Democratic nominee.  "This president, after years of stonewalling from the Democrats, was able to pass and sign a plan for a prescription drug benefit," Holt said. "Kennedy was part of that as well. He was one of the lead negotiators for the Democrats. This is really a stunning about-face. He seems to be walking away from his own ideas."  Kennedy was an early supporter of the bill but voted against it in its final form. He has said the plan benefited drug companies more than patients.  The Bush campaign official questioned Kerry's use of Kennedy as his "principal spokesperson."  "Most people have made up their minds long ago that Ted Kennedy is way out of the mainstream of national politics," the official said. "Kerry has set him up, and he is almost playing the role of a running mate." 
